DOC_TYPE: CERTIFICATE (full policy)
SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf
SOURCE_LINK: https://www.uhcsr.com/asu

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 1 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN 
 
CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE 
 
Designed Especially for the Students of 
 
 
 
Arizona State University 
 
 
2025-2026 
 
 
 
 
This Certificate of Coverage is Part of Policy # 2025-733-1 
 
This Certificate of Coverage (“Certificate”) is part of the contract between UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Company,” “We,” “Us,” and “Our”) and the Policyholder. 
 
Please keep this Certificate as an explanation of the benefits available to the Insured Person under the contract between 
the Company and the Policyholder. This Certificate is not a contract between the Insured Person and the Company. 
Amendments or endorsements may be delivered with the Certificate or added thereafter. The Master Policy is on file with 
the Policyholder and contains all of the provisions, limitations, exclusions, and qualifications of your insurance benefits, 
some of which may not be included in this Certificate. The Master Policy is the contract and will govern and control the 
payment of benefits. 
 
READ THIS ENTIRE CERTIFICATE CAREFULLY. IT DESCRIBES THE BENEFITS AVAILABLE UNDER THE POLICY. 
IT IS THE INSURED PERSON’S RESPONSIBILITY TO UNDERSTAND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN THIS 
CERTIFICATE.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 2 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
Table of Contents 
Introduction .............................................................................................................................................................................. 1 
Section 1: Who Is Covered ..................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Section 2: Effective and Termination Dates ............................................................................................................................ 2 
Section 3: Extension of Benefits after Termination ................................................................................................................. 2 
Section 4: Pre-Admission Notification ..................................................................................................................................... 3 
Section 5: Preferred Provider and Out-of-Network Provider Information ............................................................................... 3 
Section 6: Medical Expense Benefits ...................................................................................................................................... 4 
Section 7: Mandated Benefits ............................................................................................................................................... 13 
Section 8: Coordination of Benefits Provision ....................................................................................................................... 18 
Section 9: Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits ................................................................................................. 21 
Section 10: Student Health Center (SHC) Referral Required ............................................................................................... 21 
Section 11: Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 21 
Section 12: Exclusions and Limitations ................................................................................................................................. 28 
Section 13: How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness Benefits ........................................................................................ 29 
Section 14: General Provisions ............................................................................................................................................. 30 
Section 15: Online Access to Account Information ............................................................................................................... 31 
Section 16: ID Cards ............................................................................................................................................................. 31 
Section 17: UHCSR Mobile App ........................................................................................................................................... 31 
Section 18: Important Company Contact Information ........................................................................................................... 31 
 
Additional Policy Documents 
Schedule of Benefits ............................................................................................................................................. Attachment 
Pediatric Dental Services Benefits ........................................................................................................................ Attachment 
Pediatric Vision Services Benefits......................................................................................................................... Attachment 
UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy (UHCP) Prescription Drug Benefits ........................................................................ Attachment 
Assistance and Evacuation Benefits ..................................................................................................................... Attachment 
Arizona Appeals Packet. ....................................................................................................................................... Attachment

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 3 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
1 
 
Introduction 
Welcome to the UnitedHealthcare Student Resources Student Health Insurance Plan. This plan is underwritten by 
UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company. 
 
The school (referred to as the “Policyholder”) has purchased a Policy from the Company. The Company will provide the 
benefits described in this Certificate to Insured Persons, as defined in the Definitions section of this Certificate. This 
Certificate is not a contract between the Insured Person and the Company. Keep this Certificate with other important papers 
so that it is available for future reference. 
 
Please feel free to call the Customer Service Department with any questions about the plan. The telephone number is 1-
866-652-9185. The Insured can also write to the Company at: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Student Resources 
P.O. Box 809025 
Dallas, TX 75380-9025 
 
Section 1: Who Is Covered 
The Master Policy covers students who have met the Policy’s eligibility requirements (as shown below) and who: 
 
1. 
Are properly enrolled in the plan, and 
2. 
Pay the required premium. 
 
All Undergraduate students if they are enrolled in a program of study taking six or more units or have a consortium 
agreement to take courses at a qualified college with an overall credit hour total of at least six units. Seniors may enroll 
with less than six units if they are in their last semester to achieve their final graduation requirements and had the insurance 
coverage in the prior semester. 
 
Graduate students if they are enrolled in a graduate degree or certificate program and taking at least three units or one 
dissertation/thesis unit. 
 
Graduate non-degree students must have applied to a degree program and be taking at least six transferable units, be in a 
certificate program, or be a full-time student taking at least nine units. 
 
Graduate assistants or associates who are officially hired, with a signed and filed notice of appointment, and taking at least 
six units of graduate credit. 
 
Post-Doctoral Fellows, J-1 Visiting Scholars, or J-1 Student Interns are eligible to enroll in this insurance Plan. 
 
International students on non-immigrant visas, regardless of his or her fitting into one of the above classifications and 
regardless of the number of units being taken, are automatically enrolled in the Plan. 
 
The student (Named Insured, as defined in this Certificate) must actively attend classes for at least the first 31 days after 
the date for which coverage is purchased. Home study, correspondence, and online courses do not fulfill the eligibility 
requirements that the student actively attend classes. The Company maintains its right to investigate eligibility or student 
status and attendance records to verify that the Policy eligibility requirements have been met. If and whenever the Company 
discovers that the Policy eligibility requirements have not been met, its only obligation is refund of premium. 
 
Medicare Eligibility 
 
Any person who has Medicare at the time of enrollment in this student insurance plan is not eligible for coverage under the 
Master Policy. 
 
If an Insured Person obtains Medicare after the Insured Person is covered under the Master Policy, the Insured Person’s 
coverage will not end due to obtaining Medicare. 
 
As used here, “has Medicare” means that an individual is entitled to benefits under Part A (receiving free Part A) or enrolled 
in Part B or Premium Part A.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 4 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
2 
 
Enrollment 
 
When you can join the plan 
As a student you can enroll yourself: 
• 
During the enrollment period 
• 
At other special times during the year 
 
If you do not enroll yourself when you first qualify for medical benefits, you may have to wait until the next enrollment period 
to join. 
 
Special times you can join the plan 
You can enroll in these situations: 
• 
When you did not enroll in this plan before because: 
▪ 
You were covered by another health plan, and now that other coverage has ended. 
▪ 
You had COBRA, and now that coverage has ended. 
• 
You become eligible for State premium assistance under Medicaid or an S-CHIP plan for the payment of your premium 
contribution for coverage under this plan. 
• 
When you are a victim of domestic abuse or spousal abandonment and you don’t want to be enrolled in the perpetrator’s 
health plan. 
 
We must receive your completed enrollment information from you within 31 days of that date on which you no longer have 
the other coverage mentioned above. 
 
During “Open Enrollment”, notices are sent by broadcast email in compliance with Arizona State University email policy. 
These notices go to the student’s official Arizona State University email address. 
 
Auto-Enrollment: Once enrolled, you will be automatically re-enrolled and billed the appropriate premium through the ASU 
Bursar’s Office in future semesters (each fall and spring) upon registering for units, providing you meet eligibility. This also 
applies to students who have or had a graduate assistantship. If you wish to cancel coverage, you must do so during the 
published open enrollment. All open enrollment notices and information regarding the Student Health Insurance Plan are 
sent to the student’s official Arizona State University address. The ASU Campus Health Insurance Office notifies students 
who are not meeting eligibility requirements through their official ASU email address. 
 
Section 2: Effective and Termination Dates 
The Master Policy on file at the school becomes effective at 12:01 a.m., July 19, 2025. The Insured Person’s coverage 
becomes effective on the first day of the period for which premium is paid or the date the enrollment form and full premium 
are received by the Company (or its authorized representative), whichever is later. 
 
The Master Policy terminates at 11:59 p.m., August 15, 2026. The Insured Person’s coverage terminates on that date or at 
the end of the period through which premium is paid, whichever is earlier. 
 
There is no pro-rata or reduced premium payment for late enrollees. Refunds of premiums are allowed only upon entry into 
the armed forces. 
 
The Master Policy is a non-renewable one year term insurance policy. The Master Policy will not be renewed. 
 
Section 3: Extension of Benefits after Termination 
The coverage provided under the Policy ceases on the Termination Date. However, if an Insured is Hospital Confined on 
the Termination Date from a covered Injury or Sickness for which benefits were paid before the Termination Date, Covered 
Medical Expenses for such Injury or Sickness will continue to be paid as long as the condition continues but not to exceed 
90 days after the Termination Date. 
 
The total payments made in respect of the Insured for such condition both before and after the Termination Date will never 
exceed the maximum benefit. 
 
After this Extension of Benefits provision has been exhausted, all benefits cease to exist, and under no circumstances will 
further payments be made.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 5 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
3 
 
Section 4: Pre-Admission Notification 
UnitedHealthcare should be notified of all Hospital Confinements prior to admission. 
 
1. 
PRE-NOTIFICATION OF MEDICAL NON-EMERGENCY HOSPITALIZATIONS: The patient, Physician or Hospital 
should telephone 1-877-295-0720 at least five working days prior to the planned admission. 
 
2. 
NOTIFICATION OF MEDICAL EMERGENCY ADMISSIONS: The patient, patient’s representative, Physician or 
Hospital should telephone 1-877-295-0720 within two working days of the admission to provide notification of any 
admission due to Medical Emergency. 
 
 
UnitedHealthcare is open for Pre-Admission Notification calls from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. C.S.T., Monday through Friday. 
Calls may be left on the Customer Service Department’s voice mail after hours by calling 1-877-295-0720. 
 
IMPORTANT: Failure to follow the notification procedures will not affect benefits otherwise payable under the Policy; 
however, pre-notification is not a guarantee that benefits will be paid. 
 
Section 5: Preferred Provider and Out-of-Network Provider Information 
This plan is a preferred provider organization or “PPO” plan. It provides a higher level of coverage when Covered Medical 
Expenses are received from healthcare providers who are part of the plan’s network of Preferred Providers. The plan also 
provides coverage when Covered Medical Expenses are obtained from healthcare providers who are not Preferred 
Providers, known as Out-of-Network Providers. However, a lower level of coverage may be provided when care is received 
from Out-of-Network Providers and the Insured Person may be responsible for paying a greater portion of the cost. 
 
Preferred Providers in the local school area are: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus 
 
Preferred Provider Hospitals include UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus United Behavioral Health (UBH) facilities. 
 
The easiest way to locate Preferred Providers is through the plan’s website at www.uhcsr.com/ASU. The website will allow 
the Insured to easily search for providers by specialty and location. 
 
The Insured may also call the Customer Service Department at 1-866-652-9185 for assistance in finding a Preferred 
Provider. 
 
The Company arranges for health care providers to take part in the Preferred Provider network. Preferred Providers are 
independent practitioners. They are not employees of the Company. It is the Insured’s responsibility to choose a provider. 
Our credentialing process confirms public information about the providers’ licenses and other credentials but does not 
assure the quality of the services provided. 
 
A provider’s status may change. Insureds should always confirm that a Preferred Provider is participating at the time 
services are required by calling Customer Service at 1-866-652-9185 and/or by asking the provider when making an 
appointment for services. A directory of providers is available on the plan’s website at www.uhcsr.com/ASU. 
 
If an Insured receives a Covered Medical Expense from an Out-of-Network Provider and was informed incorrectly by the 
Company prior to receipt of the Covered Medical Expense that the provider was a Preferred Provider, either through Our 
provider directory or in Our response to the Insured’s request for such information (via telephone, electronic, web-based or 
internet-based means), the Insured may be eligible for cost-sharing (Copayment, Coinsurance, and applicable Deductible) 
that would be no greater than if the service had been provided from a Preferred Provider. 
 
If an Insured is currently receiving treatment for Covered Medical Expenses from a provider whose network status changes 
from Preferred Provider to Out-of-Network Provider during such treatment due to termination (non-renewal or expiration) of 
the provider’s contract, the Insured may be eligible to request continued care from their current provider under the same 
terms and conditions that would have applied prior to termination of the provider’s contract for specified conditions and 
timeframes. This provision does not apply to provider contract terminations for failure to meet applicable quality standards 
or for fraud. An Insured may call the Company at 1-866-652-9185 to find out if they are eligible for continuity of care benefits. 
 
“Preferred Provider Benefits” apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by a Preferred Provider. 
 
“Out-of-Network Provider Benefits” apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by an Out-of-Network Provider.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 6 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
4 
 
 
The Company will pay Covered Medical Expenses according to the benefits set forth in the Schedule of Benefits. Regardless 
of the provider, each Insured is responsible for the payment of their Deductible. The Deductible must be satisfied before 
benefits are paid. 
 
Allowed Amounts are the amounts the Company will pay for Covered Medical Expenses. Refer to the definition of Allowed 
Amount in this Certificate for information on how the Company determines Allowed Amounts. 
 
Preferred Provider Benefits 
The Insured is not responsible for any difference between what the Company pays for Allowed Amounts and the amount 
the provider bills, except for the Insured Person’s cost share obligation as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
This Certificate includes the following provisions to comply with the applicable requirements of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act (the “Act”) (P. L. 116 -260). These provisions reflect requirements of the Act; however, they do not 
preempt applicable state law. 
 
Out-of-Network Provider Benefits 
Except as described below, the Insured Person is responsible for paying, directly to the Out-of-Network Provider, any 
difference between the amount the provider bills the Insured and the amount the Company pays for Allowed Amounts. 
 
1. For Ancillary Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities on a non-Medical Emergency basis from Out-
of-Network Provider Physicians, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out-of-Network Provider may not bill the 
Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the 
Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate. 
2. For non-Ancillary Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities on a non-Medical Emergency basis from 
Out-of-Network Provider Physicians who have not satisfied the notice and consent criteria or for unforeseen or 
urgent medical needs that arise at the time a non-Ancillary Service is provided for which notice and consent has 
been satisfied in accordance with applicable law, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out-of-Network Provider 
may not bill the Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible which is 
based on the Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate. 
3. For Emergency Services provided by an Out-of-Network Provider, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out-of-
Network Provider may not bill the Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s applicable Copayment, 
Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the rates that would apply if the service was provided by a Preferred 
Provider which is based on the Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate. 
4. For Air Ambulance services provided by an Out-of-Network Provider, the Insured is not responsible, and the Out-
of-Network Provider may not bill the Insured, for amounts in excess of the Insured’s applicable Copayment, 
Coinsurance, or Deductible which is based on the rates that would apply if the service was provided by a Preferred 
Provider which is based on the Recognized Amount as defined in this Certificate. 
 
For the purpose of this provision, “certain Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) of the 
Social Security Act), a hospital outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) of the Social 
Security Act), an ambulatory surgical center (as described in section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act), and any other 
facility specified by the Secretary. 
 
Section 6: Medical Expense Benefits 
This section describes Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are available. Please refer to the attached Schedule 
of Benefits for benefit details. 
 
Benefits are payable for Covered Medical Expenses (see Definitions) less any Deductible incurred by or for an Insured 
Person for loss due to Injury or Sickness subject to: a) the maximum amount for specific services as set forth in the Schedule 
of Benefits; and b) any Coinsurance or Copayment amounts set forth in the Schedule of Benefits or any benefit provision 
hereto. Read the Definitions section and the Exclusions and Limitations section carefully. 
 
Benefits are payable for services delivered via Telemedicine/Telehealth. Benefits for these services are provided to the 
same extent as an in-person service under any applicable benefit category in this section. 
 
No benefits will be paid for services designated as "No Benefits" in the Schedule of Benefits or for any matter described in 
Exclusions and Limitations. If a benefit is designated, Covered Medical Expenses include:

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 7 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
5 
 
Inpatient 
 
1. 
Room and Board Expense. 
Daily semi-private room rate when confined as an Inpatient and general nursing care provided and charged by the 
Hospital. Private room rate is a Covered Medical Expense when determined to be Medically Necessary. 
 
2. 
Intensive Care. 
See Schedule of Benefits. 
 
3. 
Hospital Miscellaneous Expenses. 
When confined as an Inpatient or as a precondition for being confined as an Inpatient. In computing the number of 
days payable under this benefit, the date of admission will be counted, but not the date of discharge. 
 
Benefits will be paid for services and supplies such as: 
• 
The cost of the operating room. 
• 
Laboratory tests. 
• 
X-ray examinations. 
• 
Anesthesia. 
• 
Drugs (excluding take home drugs) or medicines. 
• 
Therapeutic services. 
• 
Supplies. 
 
4. 
Routine Newborn Care. 
While Hospital Confined and routine nursery care provided immediately after birth. 
 
Benefits will be paid for an inpatient stay of at least: 
• 
48 hours following a vaginal delivery. 
• 
96 hours following a cesarean section delivery. 
 
If the mother agrees, the attending Physician may discharge the newborn earlier than these minimum time frames. 
 
5. 
Surgery. 
Physician's fees for Inpatient surgery. 
 
6. 
Assistant Surgeon Fees. 
Assistant Surgeon Fees in connection with Inpatient surgery. 
 
7. 
Anesthetist Services. 
Professional services administered in connection with Inpatient surgery. 
 
8. 
Registered Nurse's Services. 
Registered Nurse’s services which are all of the following: 
• 
Private duty nursing care only. 
• 
Received when confined as an Inpatient. 
• 
Ordered by a licensed Physician. 
• 
A Medical Necessity. 
 
General nursing care provided by the Hospital, Skilled Nursing Facility or Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility is not 
covered under this benefit. 
 
9. 
Physician's Visits. 
Non-surgical Physician services when confined as an Inpatient. 
 
10. 
Pre-admission Testing. 
Benefits are limited to routine tests such as: 
• 
Complete blood count. 
• 
Urinalysis. 
• 
Chest X-rays.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 8 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
6 
 
If otherwise payable under the Policy, major diagnostic procedures such as those listed below will be paid under 
the Hospital Miscellaneous benefit: 
• 
CT scans. 
• 
NMR's. 
• 
Blood chemistries. 
 
Outpatient 
 
11. 
Surgery. 
Physician's fees for outpatient surgery. 
 
When these services are performed in a Physician’s office, benefits are payable under outpatient Physician’s Visits. 
 
12. 
Day Surgery Miscellaneous. 
Facility charge and the charge for services and supplies in connection with outpatient day surgery; excluding non-
scheduled surgery; and surgery performed in a Hospital emergency room; trauma center; Physician's office; or 
clinic. 
 
13. 
Assistant Surgeon Fees. 
Assistant Surgeon Fees in connection with outpatient surgery. 
 
14. 
Anesthetist Services. 
Professional services administered in connection with outpatient surgery. 
 
15. 
Physician's Visits. 
Services provided in a Physician’s office for the diagnosis and treatment of a Sickness or Injury. 
 
Physician’s Visits for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services. 
 
16. 
Physiotherapy. 
Includes but is not limited to the following rehabilitative services (including Habilitative Services): 
• 
Physical therapy. 
• 
Occupational therapy. 
• 
Cardiac rehabilitation therapy. 
• 
Manipulative treatment. 
• 
Speech therapy. 
 
Physiotherapy provided in the Insured Person’s home by a home health agency is provided as specified under 
Home Health Care. Physiotherapy provided in the Insured’s home other than by a home health agency is provided 
as specified under this benefit. 
 
17. 
Medical Emergency Expenses. 
Only in connection with a Medical Emergency as defined. Benefits will be paid for: 
• 
Facility charge for use of the emergency room and supplies. 
 
All other Emergency Services received during the visit will be paid as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
18. 
Diagnostic X-ray Services. 
Diagnostic X-rays are only those procedures identified in Physicians' Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) as 
codes 70000 - 79999 inclusive. X-ray services for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care 
Services. 
 
Unless the policy includes a separate benefit for High Cost Procedures, the following procedures will be paid under 
this benefit: 
• 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI/MRA). 
• 
CT Scans. 
• 
PET Scans. 
 
19. 
Radiation Therapy. 
See Schedule of Benefits.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 9 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
7 
 
20. 
Laboratory Procedures. 
Laboratory Procedures are only those procedures identified in Physicians' Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) 
as codes 80000 - 89999 inclusive. Laboratory procedures for preventive care are provided as specified under 
Preventive Care Services. 
 
21. 
Tests and Procedures. 
Tests and procedures are those diagnostic services and medical procedures performed by a Physician but do not 
include: 
• 
Physician's Visits. 
• 
Physiotherapy. 
• 
X-rays. 
• 
Laboratory Procedures. 
 
The following therapies will be paid under the Tests and Procedures (Outpatient) benefit: 
• 
Inhalation therapy. 
• 
Intravenous infusion therapy. 
• 
Pulmonary therapy. 
• 
Respiratory therapy. 
• 
Dialysis, hemodialysis, and peritoneal dialysis. 
• 
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). 
• 
Brain electrical activity mapping (BEAM). 
 
Tests and Procedures for preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services. 
 
22. 
Injections. 
When administered in the Physician's office and charged on the Physician's statement. Immunizations for 
preventive care are provided as specified under Preventive Care Services. 
 
23. 
Chemotherapy. 
See Schedule of Benefits. 
 
24. 
Prescription Drugs. 
See Schedule of Benefits. Benefits include over the counter smoking cessation prescribed drugs. A written 
prescription must accompany the claim when submitted. 
 
Other 
 
25. 
Ambulance Services. 
See Schedule of Benefits. 
 
26. 
Durable Medical Equipment. 
Durable Medical Equipment must be all of the following: 
• 
Provided or prescribed by a Physician. A written prescription must accompany the claim when submitted. 
• 
Primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose. 
• 
Can withstand repeated use. 
• 
Generally is not useful to a person in the absence of Injury or Sickness. 
• 
Not consumable or disposable except as needed for the effective use of covered durable medical equipment. 
 
For the purposes of this benefit, the following are considered durable medical equipment. 
• 
Braces that stabilize an injured body part and braces to treat curvature of the spine. 
• 
External prosthetic devices that replace a limb or body part but does not include any device that is fully implanted 
into the body. 
• 
Internal prosthetic and medical appliances that are permanent or temporary internal aids and supports for non-
functional body parts, including testicular implants following Medically Necessary surgical removal of the 
testicles. Medically Necessary repair, maintenance or replacement of a covered appliance is covered. 
• 
Foot Orthotic devices and inserts for diabetes mellitus and any of the following complications involving 
the foot: 
▪ 
Peripheral neuropathy with evidence of callus formation; 
▪ 
History of pre-ulcerative calluses; 
▪ 
History of previous ulceration;

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 10 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
8 
 
▪ 
Foot deformity; 
▪ 
Previous amputation of the foot or part of the foot; 
▪ 
Poor circulation. 
 
If more than one piece of equipment or device can meet the Insured’s functional need, benefits are available only 
for the equipment or device that meets the minimum specifications for the Insured’s needs. Dental braces are not 
durable medical equipment and are not covered. Benefits for durable medical equipment are limited to the initial 
purchase or one replacement purchase per Policy Year. No benefits will be paid for rental charges in excess of 
purchase price. 
 
27. 
Consultant Physician Fees. 
Services provided on an Inpatient or outpatient basis. 
 
28. 
Dental Treatment. 
Dental treatment when services are performed by a Physician and limited to the following: 
• 
Injury to Sound, Natural Teeth. 
• 
Removal of impacted wisdom teeth, including exam and x-rays. 
 
Breaking a tooth while eating is not covered. Routine dental care and treatment to the gums are not covered. 
 
Pediatric dental benefits are provided in the Pediatric Dental Services provision. 
 
Benefits will also be paid the same as any other Sickness for facility and anesthesia charges as a result of a 
hazardous medical condition that could increase the danger of anesthesia. 
 
29. 
Mental Illness Treatment. 
Benefits will be paid for services received: 
• 
On an Inpatient basis while confined to a Hospital. 
• 
On an outpatient basis including partial hospitalization and intensive outpatient treatment. Outpatient services 
include but are not limited to outpatient treatment of conditions such as anxiety, or depression which interferes 
with daily functioning; emotional adjustment or concerns related to chronic conditions, such as psychosis or 
depression; neuropsychological testing; emotional reactions associated with marital problems or divorce; 
child/adolescent problems of conduct or poor impulse control; effective disorders; suicidal or homicidal threats 
or acts; eating disorders; or acute exacerbation of chronic mental health conditions (crisis intervention and 
relapse prevention), outpatient testing/assessment, and medication management when provided in conjunction 
with a consultation. 
 
30. 
Substance Use Disorder Treatment. 
Benefits will be paid for services received: 
• 
On an Inpatient basis while confined to a Hospital. 
• 
On an outpatient basis including partial hospitalization and intensive outpatient treatment. 
 
Benefits include: 
• 
Substance Use Disorder detoxification services which include detoxification and medical ancillary services 
when required for the diagnosis and treatment of addiction to alcohol and/or drugs and medication 
management when provided in conjunction with a consultation. 
• 
Residential Substance Use Disorder Treatment. Voluntary and court-ordered residential substance use 
treatment. 
 
31. 
Maternity. 
Same as any other Sickness for maternity-related services, including prenatal and postnatal care. 
 
Benefits will be paid for an inpatient stay of at least: 
• 
48 hours following a vaginal delivery. 
• 
96 hours following a cesarean section delivery. 
 
If the mother agrees, the attending Physician may discharge the mother earlier than these minimum time frames. 
 
32. 
Complications of Pregnancy. 
Same as any other Sickness.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 11 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
9 
 
33. 
Preventive Care Services. 
Medical services including routine testing, preventive testing or treatment, and screening exams or testing in the 
absence of Injury or Sickness, that have been demonstrated by clinical evidence to be safe and effective in either 
the early detection of disease or in the prevention of disease, have been proven to have a beneficial effect on health 
outcomes and are limited to the following as required under applicable law: 
• 
Evidence-based items or services that have in effect a rating of “A” or “B” in the current recommendations of 
the United States Preventive Services Task Force. 
• 
Immunizations that have in effect a recommendation from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
• 
With respect to infants, children, and adolescents, evidence-informed preventive care and screenings provided 
for in the comprehensive guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration. 
• 
With respect to women, such additional preventive care and screenings provided for in comprehensive 
guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration. 
 
Required preventive care services are updated on an ongoing basis as guidelines and recommendations change. 
The complete and current listing of preventive care services covered under the health reform law can be found at 
the following website: https://www.healthcare.gov/preventive-care-benefits/ 
 
34. 
Reconstructive Breast Surgery Following Mastectomy. 
Same as any other Sickness and in connection with a covered mastectomy. See Benefits for Mastectomy and 
Reconstructive Surgery. 
 
35. 
Diabetes Services. 
Same as any other Sickness in connection with the treatment of diabetes. 
 
Benefits will be paid for Medically Necessary: 
• 
Outpatient self-management training, education and medical nutrition therapy service when ordered by a 
Physician and provided by appropriately licensed or registered healthcare professionals. 
• 
Medical eye exams (dilated retinal exams). 
• 
Preventive foot care for diabetes. 
• 
Prescription Drugs, equipment, and supplies based on the Insured’s specific medical needs, including: 
▪ Insulin pumps and supplies. 
▪ Blood glucose meters including continuous glucose monitors. 
▪ Insulin syringes with needles. 
▪ Blood glucose and urine test strips. 
▪ Ketone test strips and tablets. 
▪ Lancets and lancet devices. 
 
See also Benefits for Diabetes Equipment and Supplies. 
 
36. 
Home Health Care. 
See Benefits for Home Health Services. 
 
37. 
Hospice Care. 
When recommended by a Physician for an Insured Person that is terminally ill with a life expectancy of six months 
or less. All hospice care must be received from a licensed hospice agency. 
 
Hospice care includes: 
• 
Physical, psychological, social, and spiritual care for the terminally ill Insured. 
• 
Short-term grief counseling for immediate family members while the Insured is receiving hospice care. 
 
38. 
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility. 
Services received while confined as a full-time Inpatient in a licensed Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility. Confinement 
in the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility must follow within 24 hours of, and be for the same or related cause(s) as, a 
period of Hospital Confinement or Skilled Nursing Facility confinement. 
 
39. 
Skilled Nursing Facility. 
Services received while confined as an Inpatient in a Skilled Nursing Facility for treatment rendered for one of the 
following: 
• 
In lieu of Hospital Confinement as a full-time inpatient.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 12 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
10 
 
• 
Within 24 hours following a Hospital Confinement and for the same or related cause(s) as such Hospital 
Confinement. 
 
40. 
Urgent Care Center. 
Benefits are limited to: 
• 
Facility or clinic fee billed by the Urgent Care Center. 
 
All other services rendered during the visit will be paid as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
41. 
Hospital Outpatient Facility or Clinic. 
Benefits are limited to: 
• 
Facility or clinic fee billed by the Hospital. 
 
All other services rendered during the visit will be paid as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
42. 
Approved Clinical Trials. 
Routine Patient Care Costs incurred while taking part in an Approved Clinical Trial for the treatment of cancer or 
other Life-threatening Condition. The Insured Person must be clinically eligible for participation in the Approved 
Clinical Trial according to the trial protocol and either: 1) the referring Physician is a participating health care provider 
in the trial and has concluded that the Insured’s participation would be appropriate; or 2) the Insured provides 
medical and scientific evidence information establishing that the Insured’s participation would be appropriate. 
 
“Routine patient care costs” means Covered Medical Expenses which are typically provided absent a clinical trial 
and not otherwise excluded under the Policy. Routine patient care costs do not include: 
• 
The experimental or investigational item, device or service, itself. 
• 
Items and services provided solely to satisfy data collection and analysis needs and that are not used in the 
direct clinical management of the patient. 
• 
A service that is clearly inconsistent with widely accepted and established standards of care for a particular 
diagnosis. 
• 
Items and services provided by the research sponsors free of charge for any person taking part in the trial. 
 
“Life-threatening condition” means any disease or condition from which the likelihood of death is probable unless 
the course of the disease or condition is interrupted. 
 
“Approved clinical trial” means a phase I, phase II, phase III, or phase IV clinical trial that is conducted in relation to 
the prevention, detection, or treatment of cancer or other life-threatening disease or condition and is described in 
any of the following: 
• 
Federally funded trials. The study or investigation is approved or funded (which may include funding through 
in-kind contributions) by one or more of the following: 
▪ 
National Institutes of Health (NIH). (Includes National Cancer Institute (NCI).) 
▪ 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 
▪ 
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). 
▪ 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). 
▪ 
A cooperative group or center of any of the entities described above or the Department of Defense (DOD) 
or the Veterans Administration (VA). 
▪ 
A qualified non-governmental research entity identified in the guidelines issued by the National Institutes of 
Health for center support grants. 
▪ 
The Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy if the study 
or investigation has been reviewed and approved through a system of peer review. The peer review system 
is determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to meet both of the following criteria: 
o 
Comparable to the system of peer review of studies and investigations used by the National Institutes 
of Health. 
o 
Ensures unbiased review of the highest scientific standards by qualified individuals who have no 
interest in the outcome of the review. 
• 
The study or investigation is conducted under an investigational new drug application reviewed by the Food 
and Drug Administration. 
• 
The study or investigation is a drug trial that is exempt from having such an investigational new drug application. 
• 
The clinical trial must have a written protocol that describes a scientifically sound study. It must have been 
approved by all relevant institutional review boards (IRBs) before the Insured is enrolled in the trial. The 
Company may, at any time, request documentation about the trial.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 13 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
11 
 
• 
The subject or purpose of the trial must be the evaluation of an item or service that meets the definition of a 
Covered Medical Expense and is not otherwise excluded under the Policy. 
 
See also Benefits for Cancer Clinical Trials. 
 
43. 
Transplantation Services. 
Same as any other Sickness for organ or tissue transplants when ordered by a Physician. Benefits are available 
when the transplant meets the definition of a Covered Medical Expense. 
 
Donor costs that are directly related to organ removal are Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are payable 
through the Insured organ recipient’s coverage under the Policy. Benefits payable for the donor will be secondary 
to any other insurance plan, service plan, self-funded group plan, or any government plan that does not require the 
Policy to be primary. 
 
No benefits are payable for transplants which are considered an Elective Surgery or Elective Treatment (as defined) 
and transplants involving permanent mechanical or animal organs. 
 
Travel and lodging expenses will be paid as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Health services connected with the removal of an organ or tissue from an Insured Person for purposes of a 
transplant to another person are not covered. 
 
44. 
Pediatric Dental and Vision Services. 
Benefits are payable as specified in the attached Pediatric Dental Services Benefits and Pediatric Vision Care 
Services Benefits endorsements. 
 
45. 
Allergy Treatment. 
Same as any other Sickness for allergy testing and treatment. 
 
46. 
Allergy Injections. 
Benefits for allergy injections including antigen administration and desensitization. 
 
47. 
Bariatric Surgery. 
 
Same as any other Sickness for the following bariatric surgery procedures: 
• 
Open roux-en-y gastric bypass (RYGBP). 
• 
Laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass (RYGBP). 
• 
Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB). 
• 
Open biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch (BPD/DS). 
• 
Laparoscopic biliopancreatic diversion (BPD/DS). 
 
 
Bariatric surgery is covered only if the Insured meets all of the following criteria: 
• 
The Insured has a body-mass index (BMI) of ≥ 35. 
• 
The Insured has at least one co-morbidity related to obesity. 
• 
The Insured is at least 18 years or older or has reached full expected skeletal growth. 
• 
The Insured has been previously unsuccessful with medical treatment for obesity. 
• 
 
Documentation of the medical treatment must be in the Insured’s medical record showing active participation within 
the last two years in one supervised weight-management program for a minimum of six months without significant 
gaps. The weight management program must have included monthly documentation of all of the following 
components: weight, current dietary program, and physical activity (e.g., exercise program). 
 
 
The following bariatric procedures are not covered: 
• 
Open vertical banded gastroplasty. 
• 
Laparoscopic vertical banded gastroplasty. 
• 
Open sleeve gastrectomy. 
• 
Open adjustable gastric banding. 
 
48. 
Cosmetic Surgery. 
Cosmetic surgery benefits are limited to reconstructive surgery for the necessary care and treatment of medically 
diagnosed Congenital Conditions and reconstructive surgery primarily for the purpose of restoring normal bodily 
function lost as a result of an Injury or Sickness.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 14 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
12 
 
 
49. 
Family Planning. 
 
Benefits are limited to the following family planning services related to contraception and voluntary sterilization: 
• 
Medical history. 
• 
Physical examination. 
• 
Related laboratory tests. 
• 
Medical supervision in accordance with generally accepted medical practice. 
• 
Information and counseling on contraception. 
• 
Implanted/injected contraceptives. 
• 
After appropriate counseling, medical services connected with voluntary surgical sterilization procedures. 
 
Any family planning services covered by the Preventive Care Services benefit and received from a Preferred 
Provider will be covered with no cost share as referenced in the Preventive Care Services Benefit listed in the 
Schedule of Benefits. 
 
See also Benefits for Outpatient Contraceptive Drugs and Devices. 
 
50. 
Hearing Aids. 
Hearing aids when required for the correction of a hearing impairment (a reduction in the ability to perceive sound 
which may range from slight to complete deafness). Hearing aids are electronic amplifying devices designed to 
bring sound more effectively into the ear. A hearing aid consists of a microphone, amplifier and receiver. 
 
Benefits are available for a hearing aid that is purchased as a result of a written recommendation by a Physician. 
If more than one type of hearing aid can meet the Insured’s functional needs, benefits are available only for the 
hearing aid that meets the minimum specifications for the Insured’s needs. Benefits are limited to one hearing aid 
per hearing impaired ear per Policy Year including the following services: 
• 
Cleaning or repair. 
• 
Batteries for cochlear implants. 
 
51. 
Infertility. 
Benefits are limited to diagnostic services rendered for infertility evaluation. All medical treatment and Prescriptions 
Drugs related to infertility once diagnosed are not covered. 
 
52. 
Medical Supplies. 
 
Medical supplies must meet all of the following criteria: 
• 
Prescribed by a Physician. A written prescription must accompany the claim when submitted. 
• 
Used for the treatment of a covered Injury or Sickness. 
 
Benefits are limited to a 31-day supply per purchase. 
 
53. 
Nutrition Programs. 
Benefits for nutrition programs are limited to nutritional evaluation and nutritional counseling services provided by 
a licensed health professional to develop a dietary treatment plan to treat and/or manage chronic diseases or 
conditions, included but not limited to morbid obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, kidney 
disease, eating disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, food allergies and hyperlipidemia when both of the following 
are true: 
• 
Nutritional education is required for a disease in which patient self-management is an important component of 
treatment. 
• 
There exists a knowledge deficit regarding the disease which requires the intervention of a trained health 
professional. 
 
Non-disease specific, nutritional education such as general good eating habits, calorie control or dietary preferences 
(e.g. vegetarian, macro-biotic) is excluded from coverage. The cost of food is not covered under this benefit. 
 
See also benefits for Preventive Care Services, Benefits for Medical Foods and Benefits for Amino Acid Based 
Formulas. 
 
54. 
Orthognathic Treatment. 
Benefits are payable for Medically Necessary orthognathic treatment and surgery, including dental and orthodontic 
services and/or appliances that are orthodontic in nature or change the occlusion of the teeth (external or intra-
oral).

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 15 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
13 
 
 
55. 
Ostomy Supplies. 
 
Benefits for ostomy supplies are limited to the following supplies: 
• 
Pouches, face plates and belts. 
• 
Irrigation sleeves, bags and ostomy irrigation catheters. 
• 
Skin barriers. 
 
Benefits are not available for deodorants, filters, lubricants, tape, appliance cleaners, adhesive, adhesive remover, 
or other items not listed above. 
 
56. 
Prostate Screening. 
Benefits are payable for prostate specific antigen (PSA) screening and digital rectal examination (DRE) once per 
Policy Year if the following criteria are met: 
• 
The Insured is under 40 years of age and is at high risk because of family history, African-American race, or 
previous borderline PSA levels. 
• 
The Insured is age 40 or older. 
 
57. 
Routine Physicals / Well Visits: 
 
See Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Any routine physicals/well visits covered by the Preventive Care Services benefit and received from a Preferred 
Provider will be covered with no cost share as referenced in the Preventive Care Services Benefit listed in the 
Schedule of Benefits. 
 
58. 
Temporomandibular and Craniomandibular Joint Disorders. 
Benefits are payable for temporomandibular and craniomandibular joint disorders which are a result of the 
following: 
• 
An Injury. 
• 
A Congenital Condition. 
• 
A developmental defect. 
• 
A pathology. 
 
Benefits are limited to diagnosis and treatment that is recognized by the medical or dental profession as effective 
and appropriate treatment for temporomandibular or craniomandibular joint disorders, including intra-oral splints 
that stabilize the jaw joint. 
 
59. 
Wigs. 
Benefits are payable for wigs and hairpieces following hair loss as a result of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and 
second or third degree burns. Benefits are limited to one wig or hairpiece per Policy Year. 
 
Section 7: Mandated Benefits 
BENEFITS FOR OUTPATIENT SERVICES 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Injury or Sickness for treatment performed outside a Hospital for any Injury or 
Sickness, as defined in the Policy, provided that such treatment would be covered on an Inpatient basis and is provided by 
a health care provider whose services would be covered under the Policy if the treatment were performed in a Hospital. 
Treatment of the Injury or Sickness must be a Medical Necessity and must be provided as an alternative to inpatient 
treatment in a Hospital. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR MASTECTOMY AND RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for a mastectomy including the expense of breast reconstructive 
surgery of the breast on which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction of the other breast to produce a 
symmetrical appearance, prostheses, treatment of physical complications for all stages of the mastectomy, including 
lymphedemas, and at least two external postoperative prostheses incidental to the covered mastectomy. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 16 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
14 
 
BENEFITS FOR BIRTH OF ADOPTED CHILD 
Named Insured Only 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for the cost of the birth of any child legally adopted by the Insured if 
all the following are true: 
1. The child is adopted within one year of the birth. 
2. The Insured is legally obligated to pay the costs of birth. 
3. All Policy limitations have been met by the Insured. 
4. The Insured has notified the Company of his acceptability to adopt children pursuant to A.R.S. section 8-105, within 
sixty days after such approval or within sixty days after a change in insurance policies, plans or companies. 
 
This coverage is excess to any other coverage the natural mother may have for maternity benefits. If such other coverage 
exists the agency, attorney or individual arranging the adoption shall make arrangements for the insurance to pay those 
costs that may be covered under that policy and shall advise the adopting parent in writing of the existence and extent of 
the coverage without disclosing any confidential information such as the identity of the natural parent. The Insured adopting 
parents shall notify the Company of the existence and extent of the other coverage. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR CANCER CLINICAL TRIALS 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for the Insured’s Costs that are directly associated with a cancer 
clinical trial. “Insured’s Costs” means any fee or expense that is covered under the Policy for service or treatment that would 
be required if the Insured was receiving usual and customary care. 
 
Insured’s Costs do not include any drug or device provided by phase I cancer clinical trial, any investigational drug or device, 
non-health services required for an Insured to receive treatment or intervention, managing the research of the clinical trial, 
expenses that would not be covered under the Insured’s Policy and treatment or services provided outside the state of 
Arizona. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR OFF-LABEL PRESCRIPTION DRUGS 
FOR THE TREATMENT OF CANCER 
 
If benefits are provided for Prescription Drugs under the Policy, then benefits will be provided for any drug prescribed to 
treat an Insured for cancer if the drug has been recognized as safe and effective for treatment of that specific type of cancer 
in one or more of the standard medical reference compendia or accepted medical literature as described below. 
 
The accepted standard medical reference compendia are: 
 
1. The American Hospital Formulary Service Drug Information, a publication of the American Society of Health System 
Pharmacists. 
2. The national comprehensive cancer network drugs and biologics compendium. 
3. Thomson micromedex compendium drugdex. 
4. Elsevier gold standard’s clinical pharmacology compendium. 
5. Other authoritative compendia as identified by the secretary of the United States department of health and human 
services. 
 
Medical literature may be accepted, if all of the following apply: 
 
1. At least two articles from major peer reviewed professional medical journals which have been recognized, based on 
scientific or medical criteria, the drug’s safety and effectiveness for treatment of the indication for which the drug has 
been prescribed. 
2. No article from a major peer reviewed professional medical journal has concluded, based on scientific or medical 
criteria, that the drug was unsafe or ineffective or that the drug’s safety and effectiveness cannot be determined for 
the treatment of the indication for which the drug has been prescribed. 
3. The literature meets the uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals established by the 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors or is published in a journal specified by the United States 
Department of Health and Human Services as acceptable peer-reviewed medical literature pursuant to Sec. 
186(t)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 United States Code, Sec. 1395x(t)(2)(B).

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 17 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
15 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR DIABETES EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES 
 
Benefits will be paid for the Covered Medical Expenses incurred for diabetes equipment and supplies that are Medically 
Necessary and prescribed by a Physician. This benefit includes the following: 
 
1. Blood glucose monitors, including those for the legally blind. 
2. Test strips for glucose monitors and visual reading and urine testing strips. 
3. Insulin preparation and glucagon. 
4. Insulin cartridges. 
5. Drawing up devices and monitors for the visually impaired. 
6. Injection aids. 
7. Insulin cartridges for the legally blind. 
8. Syringes and lancets including automatic lancing devices. 
9. Prescribed oral agents for controlling blood sugar. 
10. Podiatric appliances for the prevention of complications associated with diabetes, to the extent coverage is required 
under Medicare. 
11. Any other device, medication, equipment or supply for which coverage is required under Medicare on or after January 
1, 1999. The coverage required in this paragraph (11) is effective six months after the coverage is required under 
Medicare. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR HOME HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Benefits will be paid for Covered Medical Expenses for Home Health Services for any Injury or Sickness, as defined in the 
Policy, provided that such treatment would be covered on an Inpatient basis and is provided by a licensed home health 
agency, which a Physician, whose services would be covered under the Policy if the treatment were performed in a Hospital, 
has prescribed in lieu of Hospital services. Treatment of the Injury or Sickness must be a Medical Necessity and must be 
provided as an alternative to Inpatient treatment in a Hospital. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR MAMMOGRAPHY SCREENING AND DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for preventive mammography screening and diagnostic imaging 
performed on dedicated equipment for diagnostic purposes on referral by a patient's Physician for the following services: 
 
1. A mammogram (including Diagnostic Mammography and Screening Mammography). 
2. Digital Breast Tomosynthesis. 
3. Magnetic resonance imaging. 
4. Ultrasound. 
5. Other modality and at such age and intervals as recommended by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. 
This includes Insureds at risk for breast cancer who have a family history with one or more first or second degree 
relatives with breast cancer, prior diagnosis of breast cancer, positive testing for hereditary gene mutations or 
heterogeneously or dense breast tissue based on the breast imaging reporting and data system of the American 
College of Radiology. 
 
“Screening mammography” means: 
 
1. An x-ray imaging of the breast of asymptomatic persons. 
2. Digital Breast Tomosynthesis. 
 
"Diagnostic mammography" means an x-ray imaging of the breast performed on persons who have symptoms or physical 
signs indicative of breast disease. 
 
"Digital breast tomosynthesis" means multiple low dose images of the breast as an x-ray tube moves around an arc. The 
images are then reconstructed to produce a volume rendering of the breast. 
 
Mammography and diagnostic imaging covered by the Preventive Care Services benefit and received from a Preferred 
Provider shall be covered with no cost share as referenced in the Preventive Care Services benefit listed in the Schedule 
of Benefits.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 18 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
16 
 
 
Mammography and diagnostic imaging covered under this benefit shall be paid the same as any other Sickness and shall 
be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR MEDICAL FOODS 
 
Benefits will be provided for Medical Foods needed to treat Inherited Metabolic Disorders. Benefits for Metabolic Formula 
and Modified Low Protein Foods must be prescribed by or ordered under the supervision of a Physician. 
 
“Medical foods” means Modified Low Protein Foods and Metabolic Formula. 
 
“Inherited metabolic disorder” means a disease caused by an inherited abnormality of body chemistry; involve amino acid, 
carbohydrate or fat metabolism; and includes testing under the newborn screening program. 
 
“Metabolic formula” means foods that are all of the following: 
 
1. Formulated to be consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a licensed Physician. 
2. Processed or formulated to be deficient in one or more of the nutrients present in typical foodstuffs. 
3. Administered for the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to metabolize 
foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who has other specific nutrient requirements as 
established by medical evaluation. 
4. Essential to the person’s optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis. 
 
“Modified low protein foods” means foods that are all of the following: 
 
1. Formulated to be consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a licensed Physician. 
2. Processed or formulated to contain less than one gram of protein per unit of serving, but does not include a natural 
food that is naturally low in protein. 
3. Administered for the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to metabolize 
foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who has other specific nutrient requirements as 
established by medical evaluation 
4. Essential to a person’s optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis. 
 
Benefits will be subject to the policy Coinsurance and Copays but will never be less than 50% of the cost of Medical Foods 
prescribed to treat the Inherited Metabolic Disorder. The Policy Deductible will not be applied. All other Policy provisions 
will be applied. 
 
BENEFITS FOR AMINO ACID BASED FORMULA 
 
Benefits will be provided for amino-acid based formula for eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders when ordered by a 
Physician subject to the following limitations: 
 
1. The Insured has been diagnosed with an eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorder. 
2. The Insured is under the continuous supervision of a licensed Physician. 
3. There is a risk of intellectual or physical impairment without the use of the formula. 
 
Benefits will be subject to the policy Coinsurance and Copays but will never be less than 75% of the cost of the amino-acid 
formula. The Policy Deductible will not be applied. All other Policy provisions will be applied. 
 
BENEFITS FOR OUTPATIENT CONTRACEPTIVE DRUGS AND DEVICES 
 
Benefits will be paid under the Prescription Drug benefit for any prescribed drug or device that is approved by the United 
States Food and Drug Administration for use as a contraceptive. This shall include oral, implant and injectable contraceptive 
drugs, intrauterine devices and prescription barrier methods. 
 
In addition, benefits will be paid the same as for any other Sickness for Outpatient Contraceptive Services. Outpatient 
Contraceptive Services means consultations, examinations, procedures and medical services provided on an outpatient 
basis and related to the use of United States Food and Drug prescription contraceptive methods to prevent unintended 
pregnancies. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 19 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
17 
 
BENEFITS FOR AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Mental Illness for the treatment of Autism Spectrum Disorder. For the purposes 
of this benefit, “treatment” includes diagnosis, assessment and services. 
 
“Autism spectrum disorder” means one of the three following disorders as defined in the most recent edition of the diagnostic 
and statistical manual of mental disorders of the American Psychiatric Association: a) Autistic disorder, b) Asperger’s 
syndrome, c) Pervasive developmental disorder. 
 
Benefits include Behavioral Therapy Services for Autism Spectrum Disorder provided to an Insured Person up to the age 
of 16. Behavioral Therapy Services must be provided or supervised by a licensed or certified Physician. 
 
“Behavioral therapy services” means interactive therapies derived from evidence-based research, including applied 
behavior analysis, which includes discrete trial training, pivotal response training, intensive intervention programs and early 
intensive behavioral intervention. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR ORAL ANTICANCER MEDICATION 
 
Benefits will be provided for prescribed patient-administered cancer treatment medications, whether orally or self-injected, 
used to kill, slow or prevent the growth of cancerous cells. 
 
Benefits will be paid on a basis no less favorable than coverage provided for Physician administered injected or 
intravenously cancer treatment medications. 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
BENEFITS FOR BIOMARKER TESTING 
 
Benefits will be paid the same as any other Sickness for Biomarker Testing. Benefits include diagnosis, treatment, and 
appropriate management for ongoing monitoring of an Insured’s disease or condition to guide treatment decisions when the 
test provides Clinical Utility as demonstrated by medical and scientific evidence, including any of the following: 
 
1. 
Labeled indications for tests that are approved or cleared by the United States Food and Drug Administration or 
indicated tests for a drug that is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration. 
2. 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services national coverage determinations or Medicare administrative contractor 
local coverage determinations. 
3. 
Nationally Recognized Clinical Practice Guidelines and Consensus Statements. 
 
“Biomarker” means a characteristic that is objectively measured and evaluated as an indicator of normal biological 
processes, pathogenic processes, or pharmacologic responses to a specific therapeutic intervention. Biomarker includes 
gene mutations or protein expression. 
 
“Biomarker testing” means the analysis of an Insured’s tissue, blood or other biospecimen for the presences of a biomarker. 
Biomarker testing includes single-analyte tests, multiplex panel tests, and whole genome sequencing. 
 
“Clinical utility” means the test result provides information that is used in the formulation of a treatment or monitoring strategy 
that informs an Insured’s outcome and impacts the clinical decision. The most appropriate test may include both information 
that is actionable and some information that cannot be immediately used in the formulation of a clinical decision. 
 
“Consensus statements” means statements that are: 
1. 
Developed by an independent, multidisciplinary panel of experts using a transparent methodology and reporting 
structure that includes a conflict-of-interest policy. 
2. 
Based on the best available evidence for the purpose of optimizing clinical care outcomes. 
3. 
Aimed at specific clinical circumstances. 
 
“Nationally recognized clinical practice guidelines” means evidence-based clinical practice guidelines that both: 
1. 
Are developed by independent organizations or medical professional societies using a transparent methodology and 
reporting structure and a conflict-of-interest policy. 
2. 
Establish standards of care that are informed by a systematic review of evidence and an assessment of the benefits 
and costs of alternative care options that include recommendations intended to optimize patient care.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 20 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
18 
 
 
Benefits shall be subject to all Deductible, Copayment, Coinsurance, limitations, or any other provisions of the Policy. 
 
Section 8: Coordination of Benefits Provision 
Benefits will be coordinated with any other eligible medical, surgical, or hospital Plan or coverage so that combined 
payments under all programs will not exceed 100% of Allowable Expenses incurred for covered services and supplies. 
 
Definitions 
1. 
Allowable Expenses: Any health care expense, including Coinsurance, or Copays and without reduction for any 
applicable Deductible that is covered in full or in part by any of the Plans covering the Insured Person. If a Plan is 
advised by an Insured Person that all Plans covering the Insured Person are high-deductible health Plans and the 
Insured Person intends to contribute to a health savings account established in accordance with section 223 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the primary high-deductible health Plan’s deductible is not an allowable expense, 
except for any health care expense incurred that may not be subject to the deductible as described in s 223(c)(2)(C) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. If a Plan provides benefits in the form of services, the reasonable cash value 
of each service is considered an allowable expense and a benefit paid. An expense or service or a portion of an 
expense or service that is not covered by any of the Plans is not an allowable expense. Any expense that a provider 
by law or in accordance with a contractual agreement is prohibited from charging an Insured Person is not an 
allowable expense. Expenses that are not allowable include all of the following. 
• 
The difference between the cost of a semi-private hospital room and a private hospital room, unless one of the 
Plans provides coverage for private hospital rooms. 
• 
For Plans that compute benefit payments on the basis of usual and customary fees or relative value schedule 
reimbursement or other similar reimbursement methodology, any amount in excess of the highest 
reimbursement amount for a specified benefit. 
• 
For Plans that provide benefits or services on the basis of negotiated fees, any amount in excess of the highest 
of the negotiated fees. 
• 
If one Plan calculates its benefits or services on the basis of usual and customary fees or relative value schedule 
reimbursement or other similar reimbursement methodology and another Plan calculates its benefits or services 
on the basis of negotiated fees, the Primary Plan’s payment arrangement shall be the Allowable Expense for 
all Plans. However, if the provider has contracted with the Secondary Plan to provide the benefit or service for 
a specific negotiated fee or payment amount that is different than the Primary Plan’s payment arrangement and 
if the provider’s contract permits, that negotiated fee or payment shall be the allowable expense used by the 
Secondary Plan to determine its benefits. 
 
The amount of any benefit reduction by the Primary Plan because an Insured Person has failed to comply with the Plan 
provisions is not an Allowable Expense. Examples of these types of Plan provisions include second surgical opinions, 
precertification of admission, and preferred provider arrangements. 
 
2. 
Plan: A form of coverage with which coordination is allowed. 
 
Plan includes all of the following: 
• 
Group insurance contracts and subscriber contracts. 
• 
Uninsured arrangements of group or group-type coverage. 
• 
Group coverage through closed panel Plans. 
• 
Group-type contracts, including blanket contracts. 
• 
The medical care components of long-term care contracts, such as skilled nursing care. 
• 
The medical benefits coverage in automobile no fault and traditional automobile fault type contracts. 
• 
Medicare or other governmental benefits, as permitted by law, except for Medicare supplement coverage. That 
part of the definition of Plan may be limited to the hospital, medical, and surgical benefits of the governmental 
program. 
 
Plan does not include any of the following: 
 
• 
Hospital indemnity coverage benefits or other fixed indemnity coverage. 
• 
Accident only coverage. 
• 
Limited benefit health coverage as defined by state law. 
• 
Specified disease or specified accident coverage. 
• 
School accident-type coverages that cover students for accidents only, including athletic injuries, either on a 
twenty four hour basis or on a “to and from school” basis;

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 21 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
19 
 
• 
Benefits provided in long term care insurance policies for non-medical services, for example, personal care, 
adult day care, homemaker services, assistance with activities of daily living, respite care, and custodial care 
or for contracts that pay a fixed daily benefit without regard to expenses incurred or the receipt of services. 
• 
Medicare supplement policies. 
• 
State Plans under Medicaid. 
• 
A governmental Plan, which, by law, provides benefits that are in excess of those of any private insurance Plan 
or other nongovernmental Plan. 
• 
An Individual Health Insurance Contract. 
 
3. 
Primary Plan: A Plan whose benefits for a person’s health care coverage must be determined without taking the 
existence of any other Plan into consideration. A Plan is a Primary Plan if: 1) the Plan either has no order of benefit 
determination rules or its rules differ from those outlined in this Coordination of Benefits Provision; or 2) all Plans 
that cover the Insured Person use the order of benefit determination rules and under those rules the Plan determines 
its benefits first. 
 
4. 
Secondary Plan: A Plan that is not the Primary Plan. 
 
5. 
We, Us or Our: The Company named in the Policy. 
 
Rules for Coordination of Benefits - When an Insured Person is covered by two or more Plans, the rules for determining 
the order of benefit payments are outlined below. 
 
The Primary Plan pays or provides its benefits according to its terms of coverage and without regard to the benefits under 
any other Plan. 
 
If an Insured is covered by more than one Secondary Plan, the Order of Benefit Determination rules in this provision shall 
decide the order in which the Secondary Plan’s benefits are determined in relation to each other. Each Secondary Plan 
shall take into consideration the benefits of the Primary Plan or Plans and the benefits of any other Plans, which has its 
benefits determined before those of that Secondary Plan. 
 
A Plan that does not contain a coordination of benefits provision that is consistent with this provision is always primary 
unless the provisions of both Plans state that the complying Plan is primary. This does not apply to coverage that is obtained 
by virtue of membership in a group that is designed to supplement a part of a basic package of benefits and provides that 
this supplementary coverage shall be excess to any other parts of the Plan provided by the contract holder. Examples of 
these types of situations are major medical coverages that are superimposed over base Plan hospital and surgical benefits, 
and insurance type coverages that are written in connection with a closed panel Plan to provide out of network benefits. 
 
If the Primary Plan is a closed panel Plan and the Secondary Plan is not a closed panel Plan, the Secondary Plan shall pay 
or provide benefits as if it were the Primary Plan when an Insured Person uses a non-panel provider, except for Emergency 
Services or authorized referrals that are paid or provided by the Primary Plan. 
 
A Plan may consider the benefits paid or provided by another Plan in calculating payment of its benefits only when it is 
secondary to that other Plan. 
 
Order of Benefit Determination - Each Plan determines its order of benefits using the first of the following rules that apply: 
 
1. 
Non-Dependent/Dependent. The benefits of the Plan which covers the person as an employee, member or 
subscriber are determined before those of the Plan which covers the person as a Dependent. If the person is a 
Medicare beneficiary, and, as a result of the provisions of Title XVII of the Social Security Act and implementing 
regulations, Medicare is both (i) secondary to the Plan covering the person as a dependent; and (ii) primary to the 
Plan covering the person as other than a dependent, then the order of benefit is reversed. The Plan covering the 
person as an employee, member, subscriber, policyholder or retiree is the Secondary Plan and the other Plan 
covering the person as a dependent is the Primary Plan. 
 
2. 
Dependent Child/Parents Married or Living Together. When this Plan and another Plan cover the same child as 
a Dependent of different persons, called "parents" who are married or are living together whether or not they have 
ever been married: 
• 
the benefits of the Plan of the parent whose birthday falls earlier in a year exclusive of year of birth are 
determined before those of the Plan of the parent whose birthday falls later in that year. 
• 
However, if both parents have the same birthday, the benefits of the Plan which covered the parent longer are 
determined before those of the Plan which covered the other parent for a shorter period of time.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 22 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
20 
 
3. 
Dependent Child/Parents Divorced, Separated or Not Living Together. If two or more Plans cover a person as 
a Dependent child of parents who are divorced or separated or are not living together, whether or not they have 
ever been married, benefits for the child are determined in this order: 
 
If the specific terms of a court decree state that one of the parents is responsible for the health care services or 
expenses of the child and that Plan has actual knowledge of those terms, that Plan is Primary. If the parent with 
financial responsibility has no coverage for the child’s health care services or expenses, but that parent’s spouse 
does, the spouse’s Plan is the Primary Plan. This item shall not apply with respect to any Plan year during which 
benefits are paid or provided before the entity has actual knowledge of the court decree provision. 
 
If a court decree states that both parents are responsible for the child’s health care expenses or coverage, the order 
of benefit shall be determined in accordance with part (2). 
 
If a court decree states that the parents have joint custody without specifying that one parent has responsibility for 
the health care expenses or coverage of the child, the order of benefits shall be determined in accordance with the 
rules in part (2). 
 
If there is no court decree allocating responsibility for the child’s health care expenses or coverage, the order of 
benefits are as follows: 
• 
First, the Plan of the parent with custody of the child. 
• 
Then the Plan of the spouse of the parent with the custody of the child. 
• 
The Plan of the parent not having custody of the child. 
• 
Finally, the Plan of the spouse of the parent not having custody of the child. 
 
4. 
Dependent Child/Non-Parental Coverage. If a Dependent child is covered under more than one Plan of 
individuals who are not the parents of the child, the order of benefits shall be determined, as applicable, as if those 
individuals were parents of the child. 
 
5. 
Active/Inactive Employee. The benefits of a Plan which covers a person as an employee who is neither laid off 
nor retired (or as that employee's Dependent) are determined before those of a Plan which covers that person as 
a laid off or retired employee (or as that employee's Dependent). If the other Plan does not have this rule, and if, as 
a result, the Plans do not agree on the order of benefits, this rule is ignored. 
 
6. 
COBRA or State Continuation Coverage. If a person whose coverage is provided under COBRA or under a right 
of continuation pursuant to federal or state law also is covered under another Plan, the following shall be the order 
of benefit determination: 
• 
First, the benefits of a Plan covering the person as an employee, member or subscriber or as that person’s 
Dependent. 
• 
Second, the benefits under the COBRA or continuation coverage. 
• 
If the other Plan does not have the rule described here and if, as a result, the Plans do not agree on the order 
of benefits, this rule is ignored. 
 
7. 
Longer/Shorter Length of Coverage. If none of the above rules determines the order of benefits, the benefits of 
the Plan which covered an employee, member or subscriber longer are determined before those of the Plan which 
covered that person for the shorter time. 
 
If none of the provisions stated above determine the Primary Plan, the Allowable Expenses shall be shared equally between 
the Plans. 
 
Effect on Benefits - When Our Plan is secondary, We may reduce Our benefits so that the total benefits paid or provided 
by all Plans during a plan year are not more than the total Allowable Expenses. In determining the amount to be paid for 
any claim, the Secondary Plan will calculate the benefits it would have paid in the absence of other health care coverage 
and apply that calculated amount to the Allowable Expense under its Plan that is unpaid by the Primary Plan. The Secondary 
Plan may then reduce its payment by the amount so that, when combined with the amount paid by the Primary Plan, the 
total benefits paid or provided by all Plans for the claim do not exceed the total Allowable Expense for that claim. In addition, 
the Secondary Plan shall credit to its Plan Deductible any amounts it would have credited to its Deductible in the absence 
of other health care coverage. 
 
Right to Recovery and Release of Necessary Information - For the purpose of determining applicability of and 
implementing the terms of this provision, We may, without further consent or notice, release to or obtain from any other 
insurance company or organization any information, with respect to any person, necessary for such purposes. Any person

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 23 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
21 
 
claiming benefits under Our coverage shall give Us the information We need to implement this provision. We will give notice 
of this exchange of claim and benefit information to the Insured Person when any claim is filed. 
 
Facility of Payment and Recovery - Whenever payments which should have been made under our coverage have been 
made under any other Plans, We shall have the right to pay over to any organizations that made such other payments, any 
amounts that are needed in order to satisfy the intent of this provision. Any amounts so paid will be deemed to be benefits 
paid under Our coverage. To the extent of such payments, We will be fully discharged from Our liability. 
 
Whenever We have made payments with respect to Allowable Expenses in total amount at any time, which are more than 
the maximum amount of payment needed at that time to satisfy the intent of this provision, We may recover such excess 
payments. Such excess payments may be received from among one or more of the following, as We determine: any persons 
to or for or with respect to whom such payments were made, any other insurers, service plans or any other organizations. 
 
Section 9: Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits 
Loss of Life, Limb or Sight 
If an accidental Injury shall independently of all other causes and within 180 days from the date of Injury solely result in any 
one of the following specific losses, the Insured Person or beneficiary may request the Company to pay the applicable 
amount below in addition to payment under the Medical Expense Benefits. 
 
For Loss Of 
 
Life 
$10,000 
Two or More Members 
$10,000 
One Member 
 $5,000 
Thumb or Index Finger 
 $2,500 
 
Member means hand, arm, foot, leg, or eye. Loss shall mean with regard to hands or arms and feet or legs, dismemberment 
by severance at or above the wrist or ankle joint; with regard to eyes, entire and irrecoverable loss of sight. Only one specific 
loss (the greater) resulting from any one Injury will be paid. 
 
Section 10: Student Health Center (SHC) Referral Required 
The student should use the services of the Health Center first where treatment will be administered or referral issued. 
Expenses incurred for medical treatment rendered outside of the Student Health Center for which no referral is obtained 
will be paid at the Out-of-Network level of benefits as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. A referral issued by the SHC 
must be submitted prior to treatment. Only one referral is required for each Injury or Sickness per Policy Year. 
 
A SHC referral for outside care is not necessary only under any of the following conditions: 
 
1. 
Medical Emergency. The student must return to SHC for necessary follow-up care. 
2. 
When the Student Health Center is closed. 
3. 
Medical care received when the student is more than 50 miles from campus. 
4. 
Maternity, obstetrical and gynecological care. 
5. 
Urgent care expenses. 
6. 
Adult vision eye exam. 
7. 
Preventive Care Services. 
8. 
Routine Physicals / Well Visits. 
9. 
Prostate Screening. 
10. 
Impacted wisdom teeth. 
11. 
Accidental Injury to sound, natural teeth. 
12. 
Voluntary sterilization for males. 
 
Section 11: Definitions 
AIR AMBULANCE means medical transport by rotary wing air ambulance or fixed wing air ambulance as defined in 42 
CFR 414.605. 
 
ALLOWED AMOUNT means the maximum amount the Company is obligated to pay for Covered Medical Expenses. 
Allowed amounts are determined by the Company or determined as required by law, as described below. 
 
Allowed amounts are based on the following:

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 24 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
22 
 
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from a Preferred Provider, allowed amounts are the Company’s contracted 
fee(s) with that provider. 
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from an Out-of-Network Provider as described below, allowed amounts are 
determined as follows: 
 
1. For non-Medical Emergency Covered Medical Expenses received at certain Preferred Provider facilities 
from Out-of-Network Provider Physicians when such services are either: a) Ancillary Services; or b) non-
Ancillary Services that have not satisfied the notice and consent criteria of section 2799B-2(d) of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to a visit as defined by the Secretary, the allowed amount is based on one of the following 
in the order listed below as applicable: 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer Model Agreement. 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by state law. 
• 
The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out-of-Network 
Provider and the Company. 
• 
The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR). 
 
For the purpose of this provision, “certain Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) 
of the Social Security Act), a hospital outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) 
of the Social Security Act), an ambulatory surgical center (as described in section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Social Security 
Act), and any other facility specified by the Secretary. 
 
2. For Emergency Services provided by an Out-of-Network Provider, the allowed amount is based on one of the 
following in the order listed below as applicable: 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer Model Agreement. 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by state law. 
• 
The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out-of-Network 
Provider and the Company. 
• 
The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR). 
 
3. For Air Ambulance transportation provided by an Out-of-Network Provider, the allowed amount is based on 
one of the following in the order listed below as applicable: 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by a state All Payer Model Agreement. 
• 
The reimbursement rate as determined by state law. 
• 
The initial payment made by the Company or the amount subsequently agreed to by the Out-of-Network 
Provider and the Company. 
• 
The amount determined by Independent Dispute Resolution (IDR). 
 
When Covered Medical Expenses are received from an Out-of-Network Provider, except as described above, allowed 
amounts are determined based on either of the following: 
 
1. Negotiated rates agreed to by the Out-of-Network Provider and either the Company or one of Our vendors, affiliates 
or subcontractors. 
2. If rates have not been negotiated, then one of the following amounts: 
• 
Allowed amounts are determined based on 140% of the published rates allowed by the Centers for Medicare 
and Medicaid Services (CMS) for Medicare for the same or similar service within the geographical market, with 
the exception of the following. 
o 
50% of CMS for the same or similar freestanding laboratory service. 
o 
45% of CMS for the same or similar Durable Medical Equipment from a freestanding supplier, or CMS 
competitive bid rates. 
o 
70% of CMS for the same or similar physical therapy service from a freestanding provider. 
• 
When a rate for all other services is not published by CMS for the service, the allowed amount is based on 20% 
of the provider’s billed charge. 
 
We update the CMS published rate data on a regular basis when updated data from CMS becomes available. These 
updates are typically put in place within 30 to 90 days after CMS updates its data. 
 
ANCILLARY SERVICES means items and services provided by Out-of-Network Provider Physicians at a Preferred Provider 
facility that are any of the following:

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 25 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
23 
 
1. Related to emergency medicine, anesthesiology, pathology, radiology, and neonatology. 
2. Provided by assistant surgeons, hospitalists, and intensivists. 
3. Diagnostic services, including radiology and laboratory services, unless such items and services are excluded from 
the definition of ancillary services as determined by the Secretary. 
4. Provided by such other specialist practitioners as determined by the Secretary. 
5. Provided by an Out-of-Network Provider Physician when no other Preferred Provider Physician is available. 
 
COINSURANCE means the percentage of Covered Medical Expenses that the Company pays. 
 
COMPLICATION OF PREGNANCY means a condition: 1) caused by pregnancy; 2) requiring medical treatment prior to, or 
subsequent to termination of pregnancy; 3) the diagnosis of which is distinct from pregnancy; and 4) which constitutes a 
classifiably distinct complication of pregnancy. A condition simply associated with the management of a difficult pregnancy 
is not considered a complication of pregnancy. 
 
CONGENITAL CONDITION means a medical condition or physical anomaly arising from a defect existing at birth. 
 
COPAY/COPAYMENT means a specified dollar amount that the Insured is required to pay for certain Covered Medical 
Expenses. 
 
COVERED MEDICAL EXPENSES means health care services and supplies which are all of the following: 
 
1. Provided for the purpose of preventing, evaluating, diagnosing or treating a Sickness or Injury. 
2. Medically Necessary. 
3. Specified as a covered medical expense in this Certificate under the Medical Expense Benefits or in the Schedule 
of Benefits. 
4. Not in excess of the Allowed Amount or the Recognized Amount when applicable. 
5. Not in excess of the maximum benefit payable per service as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
6. Not excluded in this Certificate under the Exclusions and Limitations. 
7. In excess of the amount stated as a Deductible, if any. 
 
Covered Medical Expenses will be deemed "incurred" only: 1) when the covered services are provided; and 2) when a 
charge is made to the Insured Person for such services. 
 
CUSTODIAL CARE means services that are any of the following: 
 
1. Non-health related services, such as assistance with activities of daily living, including eating, dressing, bathing, 
transferring, and ambulating. 
2. Health-related services that are provided for the primary purpose of meeting the personal needs of the patient or 
maintaining a level of function (even if the specific services are considered to be skilled services), as opposed to 
improving that function to an extent that might allow for a more independent existence. 
3. Services that do not require continued administration by trained medical personnel in order to be delivered safely 
and effectively. 
 
DEDUCTIBLE means if an amount is stated in the Schedule of Benefits or any endorsement to the Policy as a deductible, 
it shall mean an amount to be subtracted from the amount or amounts otherwise payable as Covered Medical Expenses 
before payment of any benefit is made. The deductible will apply as specified in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
ELECTIVE SURGERY OR ELECTIVE TREATMENT means those health care services or supplies that do not meet the 
health care need for a Sickness or Injury. Elective surgery or elective treatment includes any service, treatment or supplies 
that: 1) are deemed by the Company to be research or experimental; or 2) are not recognized and generally accepted 
medical practices in the United States. 
 
EMERGENCY SERVICES means, with respect to a Medical Emergency, both: 
 
1. An appropriate medical screening examination that is within the capability of the emergency department of a 
Hospital or an Independent Freestanding Emergency Department, including Ancillary Services routinely available 
to the emergency department to evaluate such emergency medical condition. 
2. Such further medical examination and treatment to stabilize the patient, including psychiatric assessment and 
stabilization, to the extent they are within the capabilities of the staff and facilities available at the Hospital or an 
Independent Freestanding Emergency Department to stabilize the patient (regardless of the department of the 
Hospital in which such further exam or treatment is provided). For the purpose of this definition, “to stabilize” has 
the meaning as given such term in section 1867(e)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395dd(e)(3)).

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 26 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
24 
 
 
Emergency services include items and services otherwise covered under the Policy when provided by an Out-of-Network 
Provider or facility (regardless of the department of the Hospital in which the items and services are provided) after the 
patient is stabilized and as part of outpatient observation, or an Inpatient stay or outpatient stay that is connected to the 
original emergency medical condition, unless each of the following conditions are met: 
 
1. The attending Physician or treating provider for the Medical Emergency determines the patient is able to travel 
using nonmedical transportation or non-emergency medical transportation to an available Preferred Provider or 
Preferred Provider facility located within a reasonable distance taking into consideration the patient’s medical 
condition. 
2. The provider furnishing the additional items and services satisfied the notice and consent criteria in accordance 
with applicable law. 
3. The patient is in such a condition to receive information as stated in 2 above and to provide informed consent in 
accordance with applicable law. 
4. The provider or facility satisfied any additional requirements or prohibitions as may be imposed by state law. 
 
The above conditions do not apply to unforeseen or urgent medical needs that arise at the time the service is provided 
regardless of whether notice and consent criteria has been satisfied. 
 
GENERALLY ACCEPTED STANDARDS OF MEDICAL PRACTICE means standards that are based on credible scientific 
evidence published in peer-reviewed medical literature generally recognized by the relevant medical community, relying 
primarily on controlled clinical trials, or, if not available, observational studies from more than one institution that suggest a 
causal relationship between the service or treatment and health outcomes. 
 
If no credible scientific evidence is available, then standards that are based on Physician specialty society recommendations 
or professional standards of care may be considered. The Company has the right to seek expert opinion in determining 
whether services are Medically Necessary. The decision to apply Physician specialty society recommendations, the choice 
of expert, and the determination of when to use such expert opinion shall be determined by the Company. 
 
The Company develops and maintains clinical policies that describe the generally accepted standards of medical practice 
scientific evidence, prevailing medical standards, and clinical guidelines supporting the Company’s determinations 
regarding specific services. These clinical policies are available through UHCprovider.com. 
 
HABILITATIVE SERVICES means health care services that help a person keep, learn, or improve skills and functions for 
daily living when administered by a Physician pursuant to a treatment plan. Habilitative services include occupational 
therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, and other services for people with disabilities. 
 
Habilitative services do not include Elective Surgery or Elective Treatment or services that are solely educational in nature 
or otherwise paid under state or federal law for purely educational services. Custodial Care, respite care, day care, 
therapeutic recreation, vocational training and residential treatment are not habilitative services. 
 
A service that does not help the Insured Person to meet functional goals in a treatment plan within a prescribed time frame 
is not a habilitative service. 
 
HOSPITAL means a licensed or properly accredited general hospital which is all of the following: 
 
1. Open at all times. 
2. Operated primarily and continuously for the treatment of and surgery for sick or injured persons as inpatients. 
3. Under the supervision of a staff of one or more legally qualified Physicians available at all times. 
4. Continuously provides on the premises 24 hour nursing service by Registered Nurses. 
5. Provides organized facilities for diagnosis and major surgery on the premises. 
6. Not primarily a clinic, nursing, rest or convalescent home. 
 
For the purpose of Mental Illness or Substance Use Disorder treatment, the surgery requirement does not apply. 
 
HOSPITAL CONFINED/HOSPITAL CONFINEMENT means confinement as an Inpatient in a Hospital by reason of an 
Injury or Sickness for which benefits are payable. 
 
INDEPENDENT FREESTANDING EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT means a health care facility that: 1) is geographically 
separate and distinct and licensed separately from a Hospital under applicable state law; and 2) provides Emergency 
Services.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 27 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
25 
 
INJURY means bodily injury which is all of the following: 
 
1. Directly and independently caused by specific accidental contact with another body or object. 
2. Unrelated to any pathological, functional, or structural disorder. 
3. A source of loss. 
4. Treated by a Physician within 30 days after the date of accident. 
5. Sustained while the Insured Person is covered under the Policy. 
 
All injuries sustained in one accident, including all related conditions and recurrent symptoms of these injuries will be 
considered one injury. Injury does not include loss which results wholly or in part, directly or indirectly, from disease or other 
bodily infirmity. Covered Medical Expenses incurred as a result of an injury that occurred prior to the Policy’s Effective Date 
will be considered a Sickness under the Policy. 
 
INPATIENT means an uninterrupted confinement that follows formal admission to a Hospital, Skilled Nursing Facility or 
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility by reason of an Injury or Sickness for which benefits are payable under the Policy. 
 
INPATIENT REHABILITATION FACILITY means a long term acute inpatient rehabilitation center, a Hospital (or special 
unit of a Hospital designated as an inpatient rehabilitation facility) that provides rehabilitation health services on an Inpatient 
basis as authorized by law. 
 
INSURED PERSON means: the Named Insured. The term Insured also means Insured Person. 
 
INTENSIVE CARE means: 1) a specifically designated facility of the Hospital that provides the highest level of medical care; 
and 2) which is restricted to those patients who are critically ill or injured. Such facility must be separate and apart from the 
surgical recovery room and from rooms, beds and wards customarily used for patient confinement. They must be: 1) 
permanently equipped with special life-saving equipment for the care of the critically ill or injured; and 2) under constant and 
continuous observation by nursing staff assigned on a full-time basis, exclusively to the intensive care unit. Intensive care 
does not mean any of these step-down units: 
 
1. Progressive care. 
2. Sub-acute intensive care. 
3. Intermediate care units. 
4. Private monitored rooms. 
5. Observation units. 
6. Other facilities which do not meet the standards for intensive care. 
 
MEDICAL EMERGENCY means a medical condition (including Mental Illness and Substance Use Disorder) manifesting 
itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) such that a prudent layperson, who possesses an 
average knowledge of health and medicine, could reasonably expect the absence of immediate medical attention would 
result in any of the following: 
 
1. Placement of the Insured's health in jeopardy, including mental health. 
2. Serious impairment of the Insured’s bodily functions. 
3. Serious dysfunction of any body organ or part of the Insured. 
4. In the case of a pregnant woman, serious jeopardy to the health of the woman or unborn child. 
5. Harm to the Insured or others. 
 
Expenses incurred for Medical Emergency will be paid only for Sickness or Injury which fulfills the above conditions. 
 
MEDICAL NECESSITY/MEDICALLY NECESSARY means those services or supplies provided or prescribed by a Hospital 
or Physician which are all of the following: 
 
1. Essential for the symptoms and diagnosis or treatment of the Sickness or Injury. 
2. Provided for the diagnosis, or the direct care and treatment of the Sickness or Injury. 
3. In accordance with Generally Accepted Standards of Medical Practice. 
4. Not primarily for the convenience of the Insured, or the Insured's Physician. 
5. The most clinically appropriate supply, frequency, duration, or level of service which can safely be provided to the 
Insured. 
 
The Medical Necessity of being confined as an Inpatient means that both: 
 
1. The Insured requires acute care as a bed patient.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 28 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
26 
 
2. The Insured cannot receive safe and adequate care as an outpatient. 
 
The Policy only provides payment for services, procedures and supplies which are a Medical Necessity. No benefits will be 
paid for expenses which are determined not to be a Medical Necessity, including any or all days of Inpatient confinement. 
 
MEDICARE means Parts A, B, C and D of the insurance program established by Title XVIII, United States Social Security 
Act, as amended by 42 U.S.C. Sections 1394, et seq. and as later amended. 
 
MENTAL ILLNESS means a Sickness that is a mental, emotional or behavioral disorder listed in the mental health or 
psychiatric diagnostic categories in the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the 
American Psychiatric Association. The fact that a disorder is listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association does not mean that treatment of the disorder is a Covered 
Medical Expense. If not excluded or defined elsewhere in the Policy, all mental health or psychiatric diagnoses are 
considered one Sickness. 
 
NAMED INSURED means an eligible, registered student of the Policyholder, if: 1) the student is properly enrolled in the 
Policy; and 2) the appropriate premium for coverage has been paid. 
 
NEWBORN INFANT AND ADOPTED CHILDREN means: 1) a newly born child of the Insured from the moment of birth 
provided that person is insured under the Policy; 2) a child adopted by the Insured regardless of the age at which the child 
was adopted, provided the person adopting the child is insured under the Policy on the date the adoption becomes effective; 
and 3) a child who has been placed for adoption with the Insured and for whom the application and approved procedures 
for adoption have been completed provided the person adopting the child is insured under the Policy on the date the child 
is placed with the Insured. 
 
Such child will be covered under the Policy for the first 31 days after: 1) birth of the newly born child; 2) the effective date of 
adoption of the child; or 3) the date of placement of the child for adoption. Coverage for such a child will be for Injury or 
Sickness, including medically diagnosed Congenital Conditions, birth abnormalities, prematurity and nursery care; benefits 
will be the same as for the Insured Person who is the child's parent. 
 
The term "child" for purposes of initial coverage of an adopted child or child placed for adoption but not for purpose of 
termination of coverage of such child, means a person under the age of (18) eighteen. 
 
OUT-OF-NETWORK PROVIDER means a provider who does not have a contract with the Company to provide services to 
Insured Persons. 
 
OUT-OF-POCKET MAXIMUM means the amount of Covered Medical Expenses that must be paid by the Insured Person 
before Covered Medical Expenses will be paid at 100% for the remainder of the Policy Year. Refer to the Schedule of 
Benefits for details on how the out-of-pocket maximum applies. 
 
PHYSICIAN means a legally qualified licensed practitioner of the healing arts who provides care within the scope of his/her 
license, other than a member of the person’s immediate family. 
 
The term “member of the immediate family” means any person related to an Insured Person within the third degree by the 
laws of consanguinity or affinity. 
 
The limitation on “member of the immediate family” does not apply to Covered Medical Expenses provided by Physicians 
who are Preferred Providers under the Policy. 
 
PHYSIOTHERAPY means short-term outpatient rehabilitation therapies (including Habilitative Services) administered by a 
Physician. 
 
POLICY OR MASTER POLICY means the entire agreement issued to the Policyholder that includes all of the following: 
 
1. 
The Policy. 
2. 
The Policyholder Application. 
3. 
The Certificate of Coverage. 
4. 
The Schedule of Benefits. 
5. 
Endorsements. 
6. 
Amendments. 
 
POLICY YEAR means the period of time beginning on the Policy Effective Date and ending on the Policy Termination Date.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 29 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
27 
 
 
POLICYHOLDER means the institution of higher education to whom the Master Policy is issued. 
 
PREFERRED PROVIDER means a provider that has a participation agreement in effect (either directly or indirectly) with 
the Company or Our affiliates to participate in Our preferred provider network. Our affiliates are those entities affiliated with 
the Company through common ownership or control with Us or with Our ultimate corporate parent, including direct and 
indirect subsidiaries. 
 
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS means any of the following: 
 
1. Prescription legend drugs. 
2. Compound medications of which at least one ingredient is a prescription legend drug. 
3. Any other drugs which under the applicable state or federal law may be dispensed only upon written prescription of 
a Physician. 
4. Injectable insulin. 
 
RECOGNIZED AMOUNT means the amount which any Copayment, Coinsurance, and applicable Deductible is based on 
for the below Covered Medical Expenses when provided by Out-of-Network Providers: 
 
1. Out-of-Network Emergency Services. 
2. Non-Emergency Services received at certain Preferred Provider facilities by Out-of-Network Provider Physicians, 
when such services are either Ancillary Services or non-Ancillary Services that have not satisfied the notice and 
consent criteria of section 2799B-2(d) of the Public Health Service Act. For the purpose of this provision, “certain 
Preferred Provider facilities” are limited to a hospital (as defined in 1861(e) of the Social Security Act), a hospital 
outpatient department, a critical access hospital (as defined in 1861(mm)(1) of the Social Security Act), an 
ambulatory surgical center described in section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act, and any other facility 
specified by the Secretary. 
 
The amount is based on one of the following in order listed below as applicable: 
 
1. An All Payer Model Agreement if adopted. 
2. State law. 
3. The lesser of the qualifying payment amount as determined under applicable law or the amount billed by the provider 
or facility. 
 
The recognized amount for Air Ambulance services provided by an Out-of-Network Provider will be calculated based on the 
lesser of the qualifying payment amount as determined under applicable law or the amount billed by the Air Ambulance 
service provider. 
 
Note: Covered Medical Expenses that use the recognized amount to determine the Insured’s cost sharing may be higher 
or lower than if cost sharing for these Covered Medical Expenses were determined based on an Allowed Amount. 
 
REGISTERED NURSE means a professional nurse (R.N.) who is not a member of the Insured Person's immediate family. 
 
SECRETARY means the term secretary as that term is applied in the No Surprises Act of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act (P.L. 116-260). 
 
SICKNESS means sickness or disease of the Insured Person which causes loss while the Insured Person is covered under 
the Policy. All related conditions and recurrent symptoms of the same or a similar condition will be considered one sickness. 
Covered Medical Expenses incurred as a result of an Injury that occurred prior to the Policy’s Effective Date will be 
considered a sickness under the Policy. 
 
SKILLED NURSING FACILITY means a Hospital or nursing facility that is licensed and operated as required by law. 
 
SOUND, NATURAL TEETH means natural teeth, the major portion of the individual tooth is present, regardless of fillings 
or caps; and is not carious, abscessed, or defective. 
 
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER means a Sickness that is listed as an alcoholism and substance use disorder in the current 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association. The fact that a 
disorder is listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric 
Association does not mean that treatment of the disorder is a Covered Medical Expense. If not excluded or defined 
elsewhere in the Policy, all alcoholism and substance use disorders are considered one Sickness.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 30 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
28 
 
 
TELEHEALTH/TELEMEDICINE means live, interactive audio with visual transmissions of a Physician-patient encounter 
from one site to another using telecommunications technology. The site may be a CMS defined originating facility or another 
location such as an Insured Person’s home or place of work. 
 
URGENT CARE CENTER means an entity that provides treatment required to prevent serious deterioration of the Insured 
Person’s health as a result of an unforeseen Sickness, Injury, or the onset of acute or severe symptoms. 
 
WALK-IN CLINIC means a health care facility that provides limited medical care on a scheduled and unscheduled basis. 
A walk-in clinic may be located in, near, or within a: 
1. Supermarket. 
2. Drug store. 
3. Pharmacy. 
4. Retail Store. 
 
Section 12: Exclusions and Limitations 
No benefits will be paid for: a) loss or expense caused by, contributed to, or resulting from; or b) treatment, services or 
supplies for, at, or related to any of the following: 
1. 
Acupuncture, except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
2. 
Behavioral problems. 
This exclusion does not apply as specifically provided in Benefits for Autism Spectrum Disorder. 
3. 
Cosmetic procedures, except as specifically provided in the Policy for the necessary care and treatment of medically 
diagnosed Congenital Conditions or reconstructive procedures to correct an Injury or treat a Sickness for which 
benefits are otherwise payable under the Policy. The primary result of the procedure is not a changed or improved 
physical appearance. 
4. 
Custodial Care. 
• 
Care provided in: rest homes, health resorts, homes for the aged, halfway houses, college infirmaries or places 
mainly for domiciliary or Custodial Care. 
• 
Extended care in treatment or substance abuse facilities for domiciliary or Custodial Care. 
5. 
Dental treatment, except: 
• 
For accidental Injury to Sound, Natural Teeth. 
• 
As described under Dental Treatment in the Policy. 
This exclusion does not apply to benefits specifically provided in Pediatric Dental Services. 
6. 
Elective Surgery or Elective Treatment. 
7. 
Elective abortion, except when the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest or it places the Insured’s life in serious 
danger. 
8. 
Flight in any kind of aircraft, except while riding as a passenger on a regularly scheduled flight of a commercial 
airline. 
9. 
Foot care for the following, except as specifically provided in the Policy: 
• 
Flat foot conditions. 
• 
Supportive devices for the foot, except as specified in the Policy. 
• 
Subluxations of the foot. 
• 
Fallen arches. 
• 
Weak feet. 
• 
Chronic foot strain. 
• 
Routine foot care including the care, cutting and removal of corns, calluses, toenails, and bunions (except 
capsular or bone surgery). 
This exclusion does not apply to preventive foot care due to conditions associated with metabolic, neurologic, or 
peripheral vascular disease, or as specifically provided in the Policy. 
10. 
Health spa or similar facilities. Strengthening programs. 
11. 
Hypnosis. 
12. 
Immunizations for work. 
13. 
Injury or Sickness for which benefits are paid or payable under any Workers' Compensation or Occupational 
Disease Law or Act, or similar legislation. 
14. 
Injury sustained by reason of a motor vehicle accident to the extent that benefits are paid or payable by any other 
valid and collectible insurance. 
15. 
Injury sustained while: 
• 
Participating in any intercollegiate or professional sport, contest or competition. 
• 
Traveling to or from such sport, contest or competition as a participant. 
• 
Participating in any practice or conditioning program for such sport, contest or competition.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 31 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
29 
 
16. 
Lipectomy. 
17. 
Marital or family counseling. 
18. 
Nuclear, chemical or biological contamination, whether direct or indirect. “Contamination” means the contamination 
or poisoning of people by nuclear and/or chemical and/or biological substances which cause Sickness and/or death. 
19. 
Participation in a riot or civil disorder. Commission of or attempt to commit a felony. Fighting. 
20. 
Prescription Drugs, services or supplies as follows, except as specifically provided in the Policy: 
• 
Therapeutic devices or appliances, including: hypodermic needles, syringes, support garments and other non-
medical substances, regardless of intended use, except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
• 
Immunization agents, except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
• 
Drugs labeled, “Caution - limited by federal law to investigational use” or experimental drugs. 
• 
Products used for cosmetic purposes. 
• 
Drugs used to treat or cure baldness. Anabolic steroids used for body building. 
• 
Anorectics - drugs used for the purpose of weight control. 
• 
Fertility agents or sexual enhancement drugs. 
• 
Refills in excess of the number specified or dispensed after one (1) year of date of the prescription. 
21. 
Reproductive services for the following, except as specifically provided in the Policy: 
• 
Genetic counseling and genetic testing. 
• 
Cryopreservation of reproductive materials. Storage of reproductive materials. 
• 
Fertility tests, except to diagnose infertility only. 
• 
Infertility treatment (male or female), including any services or supplies rendered for the purpose or with the 
intent of inducing conception. 
• 
Premarital examinations. 
• 
Impotence, organic or otherwise. 
• 
Reversal of sterilization procedures. 
22. 
Research or examinations relating to research studies, or any treatment for which the patient or the patient’s 
representative must sign an informed consent document identifying the treatment in which the patient is to 
participate as a research study or clinical research study, except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
23. 
Routine eye examinations, except vision screening provided during an annual Routine Physical/Well Visit or as 
provided in Preventive Care Services. Eye refractions. Eyeglasses. Contact lenses. Prescriptions or fitting of 
eyeglasses or contact lenses. Vision correction surgery. Treatment for visual defects and problems. 
This exclusion does not apply as follows: 
• 
When due to a covered Injury or disease process. 
• 
To benefits specifically provided in Pediatric Vision Services. 
• 
To benefits specifically provided in the Policy. 
• 
To the initial pair of contact lenses for the treatment of keratoconus or post-cataract surgery. 
24. 
Services provided normally without charge by the Health Service of the Policyholder. Services covered or provided 
by the student health fee. 
25. 
Skydiving. Parachuting. Hang gliding. Glider flying. Parasailing. Sail planing. Bungee jumping. 
26. 
Naturopathic services. 
27. 
Stand-alone multi-disciplinary smoking cessation programs. These are programs that usually include health care 
providers specializing in smoking cessation and may include a psychologist, social worker or other licensed or 
certified professional. 
28. 
Supplies, except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
29. 
Surgical breast reduction, breast augmentation, breast implants or breast prosthetic devices, or gynecomastia, 
except as specifically provided in the Policy. 
30. 
Treatment in a Government hospital, unless there is a legal obligation for the Insured Person to pay for such 
treatment. 
31. 
War or any act of war, declared or undeclared; or while in the armed forces of any country (a pro-rata premium will 
be refunded upon request for such period not covered). 
32. 
Weight management. Weight reduction. Nutrition programs, except as specifically provided for in the Policy. 
Treatment for obesity, except as specifically provided in the Policy for Bariatric Surgery. Surgery for removal of 
excess skin or fat. This exclusion does not apply to benefits specifically provided in the Policy. 
 
Section 13: How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness Benefits 
In the event of Injury or Sickness, students should: 
 
1. 
Report to the Student Health Center or Infirmary for treatment or referral, or when not in school, to their Physician 
or Hospital. 
2. 
Insureds can submit claims online in their My Account at www.uhcsr.com/MyAccount or submit claims by mail. If 
submitting by mail, send to the address below all medical and hospital bills along with the patient's name and

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 32 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
30 
 
Insured student's name, address, SR ID number (Insured’s insurance Company ID number) and name of the 
university under which the student is insured. A Company claim form is not required for filing a claim. 
3. 
Submit claims for payment within 90 days after the date of service. If the Insured doesn’t provide this information 
within one year of the date of service, benefits for that service may be denied at our discretion. This time limit does 
not apply if the Insured is legally incapacitated. 
 
If submitting a claim by mail, send the above information to the Company at: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Student Resources 
P.O. Box 809025 
 
Dallas, TX 75380-9025 
 
Section 14: General Provisions 
GRACE PERIOD: A grace period of thirty-one days will be granted for the payment of each premium falling due after the 
first premium, during which grace period the Policy shall continue in force. 
 
NOTICE OF CLAIM: Written notice of claim must be given to the Company within 90 days after the occurrence or 
commencement of any loss covered by the Policy, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible. Notice given by or on 
behalf of the Named Insured to the Company, P.O. Box 809025, Dallas, Texas 75380-9025 with information sufficient to 
identify the Named Insured shall be deemed notice to the Company. 
 
CLAIM FORMS: Claim forms are not required. 
 
PROOF OF LOSS: Written proof of loss must be furnished to the Company at its said office within 90 days after the date of 
such loss. Failure to furnish such proof within the time required will not invalidate nor reduce any claim if it was not 
reasonably possible to furnish proof. In no event except in the absence of legal capacity shall written proofs of loss be 
furnished later than one year from the time proof is otherwise required. 
 
TIME OF PAYMENT OF CLAIM: Indemnities payable under the Policy for any loss will be paid upon receipt of due written 
proof of such loss. 
 
PAYMENT OF CLAIMS: All or a portion of any indemnities provided by the Policy may, at the Company's option, be paid 
directly to the Hospital or person rendering such service, unless the Named Insured requests otherwise in writing not later 
than the time of filing proofs of such loss. 
 
Indemnities provided under the Policy for any of the Out-of-Network Provider services listed in the No Surprises Act of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 116-260) will be paid directly to the Provider. 
 
Any payment so made shall discharge the Company's obligation to the extent of the amount of benefits so paid. 
 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: As a part of Proof of Loss, the Company at its own expense shall have the right and 
opportunity: 1) to examine the person of any Insured Person when and as often as it may reasonably require during the 
pendency of a claim; and, 2) to have an autopsy made in case of death where it is not forbidden by law. The Company has 
the right to secure a second opinion regarding treatment or hospitalization. Failure of an Insured to present himself or 
herself for examination by a Physician when requested shall authorize the Company to: (1) withhold any payment of Covered 
Medical Expenses until such examination is performed and Physician's report received; and (2) deduct from any amounts 
otherwise payable hereunder any amount for which the Company has become obligated to pay to a Physician retained by 
the Company to make an examination for which the Insured failed to appear. Said deduction shall be made with the same 
force and effect as a Deductible herein defined. 
 
LEGAL ACTIONS: No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover on the Policy prior to the expiration of 60 days 
after written proofs of loss have been furnished in accordance with the requirements of the Policy. No such action shall be 
brought after the expiration of three years after the time written proofs of loss are required to be furnished. 
 
RIGHT OF RECOVERY: Payments made by the Company which exceed the Covered Medical Expenses (after allowance 
for Deductible and Coinsurance clauses, if any) payable hereunder shall be recoverable by the Company from or among 
any persons, firms, or corporations to or for whom such payments were made or from any insurance organizations who are 
obligated in respect of any covered Injury or Sickness as their liability may appear.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 33 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) CERT P1 
31 
 
MORE THAN ONE POLICY: Insurance effective at any one time on the Insured Person under a like policy, or policies in 
this Company is limited to the one such policy elected by the Insured Person, his beneficiary or his estate, as the case may 
be, and the Company will return all premiums paid for all other such policies. 
 
Section 15: Online Access to Account Information 
UnitedHealthcare Student Resources Insureds have online access to claims status, EOBs, ID cards, network providers, 
correspondence, and coverage information by logging in to My Account at www.uhcsr.com/myaccount. Insured students 
who don’t already have an online account may simply select the “Create Account” link. Follow the simple, onscreen 
directions to establish an online account in minutes using the Insured’s 7-digit Insurance ID number or the email address 
on file. 
 
As part of UnitedHealthcare Student Resources’ environmental commitment to reducing waste, we’ve adopted a number of 
initiatives designed to preserve our precious resources while also protecting the security of a student’s personal health 
information. 
 
My Account now includes a message center - a self-service tool that provides a quick and easy way to view any email 
notifications the Company may have sent. Notifications are securely sent directly to the Insured student’s email address. If 
the Insured student prefers to receive paper copies, he or she may opt-out of electronic delivery by going into My Profile 
and making the change there. 
 
Section 16: ID Cards 
Digital ID cards will be made available to each Insured Person. The Company will send an email notification when the 
digital ID card is available to be downloaded from My Account. An Insured Person may also use My Account to request 
delivery of a permanent ID card through the mail. 
 
Section 17: UHCSR Mobile App 
The UHCSR Mobile App is available for download from Google Play or the App Store. Features of the Mobile App include 
easy access to: 
• 
ID Cards – view, save to your device, fax or email directly to your provider. 
• 
Provider Search – search for In-Network participating healthcare or Mental Health providers, find contact information 
for the provider’s office or facility, and locate the provider’s office or facility on a map. 
• 
Find My Claims – view claims received within the past 120 days for the primary Insured; includes provider, date of 
service, status, claim amount and amount paid. 
 
Section 18: Important Company Contact Information 
The Policy is Underwritten by: 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
Administrative Office: 
UnitedHealthcare Student Resources 
P.O. Box 809025 
Dallas, Texas 75380-9025 
1-866-652-9185 
Website: www.uhcsr.com/ASU 
 
Sales/Marketing Services: 
UnitedHealthcare Student Resources 
11399 16th Court North, Suite 110 
St. Petersburg, FL 33716 
Email: info@uhcsr.com 
 
Customer Service: 
866-652-9185 
(Customer Services Representatives are available Monday - Friday, 7:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. (Central Time))

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 34 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) SOB PPO (733) 
1 
 
Schedule of Benefits 
Arizona State University 
2025-733-1 
METALLIC LEVEL – PLATINUM WITH ACTUARIAL VALUE OF 92.970% 
Injury and Sickness Benefits 
 
No Overall Maximum Dollar Limit (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year) 
 
 
Deductible Preferred Provider 
 
 
$250 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year) 
 
Deductible Out-of-Network Provider 
 
 
$1,000 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year) 
 
Coinsurance Preferred Provider 
 
 
80% except as noted below 
 
Coinsurance Out-of-Network Provider 
 
 
50% except as noted below 
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum Preferred Provider 
 
$1,500 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year) 
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum Out-of-Network Provider 
$3,000 (Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year) 
 
The Policy provides benefits for the Covered Medical Expenses incurred by an Insured Person for loss due to a covered 
Injury or Sickness. 
 
The Preferred Provider for this plan is UnitedHealthcare Choice Plus. 
 
Preferred Provider Benefits apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by a Preferred Provider. If a Preferred 
Provider is not available in the Network Area, benefits will be paid for Covered Medical Expenses provided by an Out-of-
Network Provider at the Preferred Provider Benefit level. “Network area” means the 50 mile radius around the local school 
campus the Named Insured is attending. 
 
Out-of-Network Provider Benefits apply to Covered Medical Expenses that are provided by an Out-of-Network Provider. 
Refer to the Preferred Provider and Out-of-Network Provider Information section of the Certificate for information on 
reimbursement for Emergency Services provided by an Out-of-Network Provider, Covered Medical Expenses provided at 
certain Preferred Provider facilities by an Out-of-Network Physician, and Air Ambulance transport provided by an Out-of-
Network Provider. All other Covered Medical Expenses provided by an Out-of-Network Provider at a Preferred Provider 
facility will be paid at the Preferred Provider Benefit level. 
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum: After the Out-of-Pocket Maximum has been satisfied, Covered Medical Expenses will be paid at 
100% for the remainder of the Policy Year subject to any benefit maximums or limits that may apply. Separate Out-of-Pocket 
Maximums apply to Preferred Provider and Out-of-Network Provider Benefits. Any applicable Coinsurance, Copays or 
Deductibles will be applied to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum. Services that are not Covered Medical Expenses and the amount 
benefits are reduced for failing to comply with Policy provisions or requirements do not count toward meeting the Out-of-
Pocket Maximum. Even when the Out-of-Pocket Maximum has been satisfied, the Insured Person will still be responsible 
for Out-of-Network Copays. 
 
Student Health Center Benefits: 
• 
The Deductible and Copays will be waived and benefits will be paid at 100% for Covered Medical Expenses incurred 
when treatment is rendered at the Student Health Center for the following services: Travel Immunizations, Well-
Woman Care, Preventive Care, and Initial Counseling Assessment for Psychiatric Services. 
• 
The Deductible will be waived and benefits will be paid at 100% for Covered Medical Expenses incurred when 
treatment is rendered at the Student Health Center for the following services: 
▪ 
Counseling and Psychiatric Services: Brief Counseling Treatment after $15 Copay per visit and Psychiatric 
Services after $15 Copay per visit. 
▪ 
Lab and X-ray after $10 Copay per visit. 
▪ 
General Medicine after $15 Copay per visit. 
▪ 
Specialist Care and Chiropractic Care after $25 Copay per day. 
▪ 
All other services listed in the Schedule of Benefits. 
• 
The Deductible and Copays will be waived, and benefits will be paid at 100% for Covered Medical Expenses for 
Laboratory procedures, including routine Laboratory procedures, performed at the SHC and labs sent to LabCorp 
or Sonora Quest Laboratories by the SHC. SHC referral is not required. 
 
Out-of-Country Claims: Covered Medical Expenses incurred outside the United States will be paid at the Preferred 
Provider Benefit level.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 35 =====

COL-17-AZ (PY25) SOB PPO (733) 
2 
 
Benefits are calculated on a Policy Year basis unless otherwise specifically stated. When benefit limits apply, benefits will 
be paid up to the maximum benefit for each service as scheduled below. All benefit maximums are combined Preferred 
Provider and Out-of-Network Provider unless otherwise specifically stated. Please refer to the Medical Expense Benefits 
section of the Certificate of Coverage for a description of the Covered Medical Expenses for which benefits are available. 
Covered Medical Expenses include: 

[Benefits Table Omitted]
CANONICAL_TABLE_SOURCE (Preferred vs Out-of-Network): asu_ship_key_value_blocks.txt
Source PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGES 35–39
 
==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 40 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
1 
 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT 
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
of the terms and conditions of the Policy not inconsistent therewith. 
 
 
 
President 
 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amended as follows: 
 
Pediatric Dental Services Benefits 
 
Benefits are provided under this endorsement for Covered Dental Services, as described below, for Insured Persons under 
the age of 19. Benefits under this endorsement terminate on the earlier of: 1) last day of the month the Insured Person 
reaches the age of 19; or 2) the date the Insured Person’s coverage under the Policy terminates. 
 
Section 1: Accessing Pediatric Dental Services 
 
Network and Out-of-Network Benefits 
 
Network Benefits - these benefits apply when the Insured Person chooses to obtain Covered Dental Services from a 
Network Dental Provider. Insured Persons generally are required to pay less to the Network Dental Provider than they would 
pay for services from an out-of-Network provider. Network Benefits are determined based on the contracted fee for each 
Covered Dental Service. In no event, will the Insured Person be required to pay a Network Dental Provider an amount for 
a Covered Dental Service that is greater than the contracted fee. 
 
In order for Covered Dental Services to be paid as Network Benefits, the Insured Person must obtain all Covered Dental 
Services directly from or through a Network Dental Provider. 
 
Insured Persons must always check the participation status of a provider prior to seeking services. From time to time, the 
participation status of a provider may change. The Insured Person can check the participation status by calling the Company 
and/or the provider. The Company can help in referring the Insured Person to Network Dental Providers. 
 
The Company will make a Directory of Network Dental Providers available to the Insured Person. The Insured Person can 
also call the Company at the number stated on their identification (ID) card to determine which providers participate in the 
Network. 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits - these benefits apply when the Insured Person decides to obtain Covered Dental Services from 
out-of-Network Dental Providers. Insured Persons generally are required to pay more to the provider than for Network 
Benefits. Out-of-Network Benefits are determined based on the Usual and Customary Fee for similarly situated Network 
Dental Providers for each Covered Dental Service. The actual charge made by an out-of-Network Dental Provider for a 
Covered Dental Service may exceed the Usual and Customary Fee. Insured Persons may be required to pay an out-of-
Network Dental Provider an amount for a Covered Dental Service in excess of the Usual and Customary Fee. When the 
Insured Person obtains Covered Dental Services from out-of-Network Dental Providers, the Insured Person must file a claim 
with the Company to be reimbursed for Allowed Dental Amounts. 
 
What Are Covered Dental Services? 
 
The Insured Person is eligible for benefits for Covered Dental Services listed in this endorsement if such Dental Services 
are Necessary and are provided by or under the direction of a Network Dental Provider.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 41 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
2 
 
Benefits are available only for Necessary Dental Services. The fact that a Dental Provider has performed or prescribed a 
procedure or treatment, or the fact that it may be the only available treatment for a dental disease, does not mean that the 
procedure or treatment is a Covered Dental Service under this endorsement. 
 
What Is a Pre-Treatment Estimate? 
 
If the charge for a Dental Service is expected to exceed $500 or if a dental exam reveals the need for fixed bridgework, the 
Insured Person may notify the Company of such treatment before treatment begins and receive a pre-treatment estimate. 
To receive a pre-treatment estimate, the Insured Person or Dental Provider should send a notice to the Company, via claim 
form, within 20 calendar days of the exam. If requested, the Dental Provider must provide the Company with dental x-rays, 
study models or other information necessary to evaluate the treatment plan for purposes of benefit determination. 
 
The Company will determine if the proposed treatment is a Covered Dental Service and will estimate the amount of payment. 
The estimate of benefits payable will be sent to the Dental Provider and will be subject to all terms, conditions and provisions 
of the Policy. Clinical situations that can be effectively treated by a less costly, clinically acceptable alternative procedure 
will be assigned a benefit based on the less costly procedure. 
 
A pre-treatment estimate of benefits is not an agreement to pay for expenses. This procedure lets the Insured Person know 
in advance approximately what portion of the expenses will be considered for payment. 
 
Does Pre-Authorization Apply? 
 
Pre-authorization is required for all orthodontic services. The Insured Person should speak to the Dental Provider about 
obtaining a pre-authorization before Dental Services are provided. If the Insured Person does not obtain a pre-authorization, 
the Company has a right to deny the claim for failure to comply with this requirement. 
 
Section 2: Benefits for Pediatric Dental Services 
 
Benefits are provided for the Dental Services stated in this Section when such services are: 
A. Necessary. 
B. Provided by or under the direction of a Dental Provider. 
C. Clinical situations that can be effectively treated by a less costly, dental appropriate alternative procedure will be 
assigned a benefit based on the least costly procedure. 
D. Not excluded as described in Section 3: Pediatric Dental Exclusions of this endorsement. 
 
Benefits for Covered Dental Services are subject to satisfaction of the Dental Services Deductible. 
 
Network Benefits: 
 
Benefits for Allowed Dental Amounts are determined as a percentage of the negotiated contract fee between the Company 
and the provider rather than a percentage of the provider's billed charge. The Company’s negotiated rate with the provider 
is ordinarily lower than the provider's billed charge. 
 
A Network provider cannot charge the Insured Person or the Company for any service or supply that is not Necessary as 
determined by the Company. If the Insured Person agrees to receive a service or supply that is not Necessary the Network 
provider may charge the Insured Person. However, these charges will not be considered Covered Dental Services and 
benefits will not be payable. 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits: 
 
Benefits for Allowed Dental Amounts from out-of-Network providers are determined as a percentage of the Usual and 
Customary Fees. The Insured Person must pay the amount by which the out-of-Network provider's billed charge exceeds 
the Allowed Dental Amounts. 
 
Policy Deductible 
 
Benefits for pediatric Dental Services provided by a Network Dental Provider under this endorsement are not subject to the 
Policy Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Benefits for pediatric Dental Services provided by an out-of-Network Dental Provider under this endorsement are subject to 
the Policy Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 42 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
3 
 
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum - any amount the Insured Person pays in Coinsurance for pediatric Dental Services under this 
endorsement applies to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Benefits 
 
Dental Services Deductibles are calculated on a Policy Year basis. 
 
When benefit limits apply, the limit stated refers to any combination of Network Benefits and Out-of-Network Benefits unless 
otherwise specifically stated. 
 
Benefit limits are calculated on a Policy Year basis unless otherwise specifically stated. 
 
Benefit Description 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
Diagnostic Services 
Evaluations (Checkup Exams) 
 
Limited to two times per 12 months. 
Covered as a separate benefit only if no 
other service was done during the visit 
other than X-rays. 
 
D0120 - Periodic oral evaluation 
D0140 - Limited oral evaluation - problem 
focused 
D9995 - Teledentistry - synchronous - real 
time encounter 
D9996 - Teledentistry - asynchronous - 
information stored and forwarded to 
dentist for subsequent review 
D0150 - Comprehensive oral evaluation - 
new or established patient 
D0180 - Comprehensive periodontal 
evaluation - new or established patient 
D0160 - Detailed and extensive oral 
evaluation - problem focused, by report 
100% 
100% 
Intraoral Radiographs (X-ray) 
 
Limited to one series of films per 36 
months. 
 
D0210 - Intraoral - comprehensive series 
of radiographic images 
D0709 - Intraoral - comprehensive series 
of radiographic images - image capture 
only 
D0372 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - 
comprehensive series of radiographic 
images 
D0387 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - 
comprehensive series of radiographic 
images - image capture only 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to two 
per 12 months. 
 
D0220 - Intraoral - periapical first 
radiographic image 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 43 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
4 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D0230 - Intraoral - periapical - each 
additional radiographic image 
D0240 - Intraoral - occlusal radiographic 
image 
D0374 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - 
periapical radiographic image 
D0389 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - 
periapical radiographic image - image 
capture only 
D0706 - Intraoral - occlusal radiographic 
image - image capture only 
D0707 - Intraoral - periapical radiographic 
image - image capture only 
Any combination of the following services 
is limited to two series of films per 12 
months. 
 
D0270 - Bitewing - single radiographic 
image 
D0272 - Bitewings - two radiographic 
images 
D0274 - Bitewings - four radiographic 
images 
D0277 - Vertical bitewings - 7 to 8 
radiographic images 
D0373 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - 
comprehensive series of radiographic 
images 
D0388 - Intraoral tomosynthesis - bitewing
radiographic image - image capture only 
D0708 - Intraoral - bitewing radiographic 
image - image capture only 
100% 
100% 
Limited to one time per 36 months. 
 
D0330 - Panoramic radiograph image 
D0701 - Panoramic radiographic image - 
image capture only 
D0702 - 2-D Cephalometric radiographic 
image - image capture only 
 
100% 
100% 
The following service is limited to two 
images per 12 months. 
 
D0705 - Extra-oral posterior dental 
radiographic image - image capture only 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D0340 - 2-D Cephalometric radiographic 
image - acquisition, measurement and 
analysis 
D0350 - 2-D Oral/Facial photographic 
images obtained intra-orally or extra-orally 
D0470 - Diagnostic casts 
D0703 - 2-D Oral/facial photographic 
image obtained intra-orally or extra-orally 
- image capture only 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 44 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
5 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
Preventive Services 
Dental Prophylaxis (Cleanings) 
 
The following services are limited to two 
times every 12 months. 
 
D1110 - Prophylaxis - adult 
D1120 - Prophylaxis - child 
100% 
100% 
Fluoride Treatments 
 
The following services are limited to two 
times every 12 months. 
 
D1206 - Topical application of fluoride 
varnish 
D1208 - Topical application of fluoride - 
excluding varnish 
100% 
100% 
Sealants (Protective Coating) 
 
The following services are limited to once 
per first or second permanent molar every 
36 months. 
 
D1351 - Sealant - per tooth 
D1352 - Preventive resin restorations in 
moderate to high caries risk patient - 
permanent tooth 
100% 
100% 
Space Maintainers (Spacers) 
 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D1510 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
unilateral - per quadrant 
D1516 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
bilateral maxillary 
D1517 - Space maintainer - fixed - 
bilateral mandibular 
D1520 - Space maintainer - removable - 
unilateral - per quadrant 
D1526 - Space maintainer - removable - 
bilateral maxillary 
D1527 - Space maintainer - removable - 
bilateral mandibular 
D1551 - Re-cement or re-bond bilateral 
space maintainer - maxillary 
D1552 - Re-cement or re-bond bilateral 
space maintainer - mandibular 
D1553 - Re-cement or re-bond unilateral 
space maintainer - per quadrant 
D1556 - Removal of fixed unilateral space 
maintainer - per quadrant 
D1557 - Removal of fixed bilateral space 
maintainer - maxillary 
D1558 - Removal of fixed bilateral space 
maintainer - mandibular 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 45 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
6 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D1575 - Distal shoe space maintainer - 
fixed - unilateral per quadrant 
Minor Restorative Services 
Amalgam Restorations (Silver Fillings) 
 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2140 - Amalgams - one surface, primary 
or permanent 
D2150 - Amalgams - two surfaces, 
primary or permanent 
D2160 - Amalgams - three surfaces, 
primary or permanent 
D2161 - Amalgams - four or more 
surfaces, primary or permanent 
100% 
100% 
Composite Resin Restorations (Tooth 
Colored Fillings) 
 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2330 - Resin-based composite - one 
surface, anterior 
D2331 - Resin-based composite - two 
surfaces, anterior 
D2332 - Resin-based composite - three 
surfaces, anterior 
D2335 - Resin-based composite - four or 
more surfaces (anterior) 
D2989 - Excavation of a tooth resulting in 
the determination of non-restorability 
100% 
100% 
Crowns/Inlays/Onlays 
The following services are subject to a 
limit of one time every 60 months. 
 
D2542 - Onlay - metallic - two surfaces 
D2543 - Onlay - metallic - three surfaces 
D2544 - Onlay - metallic - four or more 
surfaces 
D2740 - Crown - porcelain/ceramic 
D2750 - Crown - porcelain fused to high 
noble metal 
D2751 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
predominately base metal 
D2752 - Crown - porcelain fused to noble 
metal 
D2753 - Crown - porcelain fused to 
titanium and titanium alloys 
D2780 - Crown - 3/4 cast high noble metal
D2781 - Crown - 3/4 cast predominately 
base metal 
D2783 - Crown - 3/4 porcelain/ceramic 
D2790 - Crown - full cast high noble metal 
D2791 - Crown - full cast predominately 
base metal 
D2792 - Crown - full cast noble metal 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 46 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
7 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D2794 - Crown - titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D2930 - Prefabricated stainless steel 
crown - primary tooth 
D2931 - Prefabricated stainless steel 
crown - permanent tooth 
 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2510 - Inlay - metallic - one surface 
D2520 - Inlay - metallic - two surfaces 
D2530 - Inlay - metallic - three surfaces 
D2910 - Re-cement or re-bond inlay 
D2920 - Re-cement or re-bond crown 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2940 - Protective restoration 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to one 
time per tooth every 60 months. 
 
D2950 - Core buildup, including any pins 
when required 
D2951 - Pin retention - per tooth, in 
addition to restoration 
100% 
100% 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2954 - Prefabricated post and core in 
addition to crown 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D2980 - Crown repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure 
D2981 - Inlay repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure 
D2982 - Onlay repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure 
100% 
100% 
Endodontics 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D3220 - Therapeutic pulpotomy 
(excluding final restoration) 
D3222 - Partial pulpotomy for 
apexogenesis - permanent tooth with 
incomplete root development 
D3230 - Pulpal therapy (resorbable filling) 
- anterior, primary tooth (excluding final 
restoration) 
D3240 - Pulpal therapy (resorbable filling) 
- posterior, primary tooth (excluding final 
restoration) 
 
 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 47 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
8 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D3310 - Endodontic therapy, anterior 
tooth (excluding final restoration) 
D3320 - Endodontic therapy, premolar 
tooth (excluding final restoration) 
D3330 - Endodontic therapy, molar tooth 
(excluding final restoration) 
D3346 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - anterior 
D3347 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - premolar 
D3348 - Retreatment of previous root 
canal therapy - molar 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D3351 - Apexification/recalcification - 
initial visit 
D3352 - 
Apexification/recalcification/pulpal 
regeneration - interim medication 
replacement 
D3353 - Apexification/recalcification - final 
visit 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D3410 - Apicoectomy - anterior 
D3421 - Apicoectomy - premolar (first 
root) 
D3425 - Apicoectomy - molar (first root) 
D3426 - Apicoectomy (each additional 
root) 
D3450 - Root amputation - per root 
D3471 - Surgical repair of root resorption -
anterior 
D3472 - Surgical repair of root resorption -
premolar 
D3473 - Surgical repair of root resorption -
molar 
D3501 - Surgical exposure of root surface 
without apicoectomy or repair of root 
resorption - anterior 
D3502 - Surgical exposure of root surface 
without apicoectomy or repair of root 
resorption - premolar 
D3503 - Surgical exposure of root surface 
without apicoectomy or repair of root 
resorption - molar 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D3911 - Intraorifice barrier 
D3920 - Hemisection (including any root 
removal), not including root canal therapy 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 48 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
9 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
Periodontics 
The following services are limited to a 
frequency of one every 36 months. 
 
D4210 - Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty - 
four or more contiguous teeth or tooth 
bounded spaces per quadrant 
D4211 - Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty - 
one to three contiguous teeth or tooth 
bounded spaces per quadrant 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to one 
every 36 months. 
 
D4240 - Gingival flap procedure, including 
root planing - four or more contiguous 
teeth or tooth bounded spaces per 
quadrant 
D4241 - Gingival flap procedure, including 
root planing, one to three contiguous teeth
or tooth bounded spaces per quadrant 
D4249 - Clinical crown lengthening - hard 
tissue 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to one 
every 36 months. 
 
D4260 - Osseous surgery (including flap 
entry and closure) - four or more 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded spaces 
per quadrant 
D4261 - Osseous surgery (including flap 
entry and closure), one to three 
contiguous teeth or bounded teeth spaces 
per quadrant 
D4263 - Bone replacement graft retained 
natural tooth - first site in quadrant 
D4286 - Removal of non-resorbable 
barrier 
100% 
100% 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D4270 - Pedicle soft tissue graft 
procedure 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D4273 - Autogenous connective tissue 
graft procedure, per first tooth implant or 
edentulous tooth position in graft 
D4275 - Non-autogenous connective 
tissue graft first tooth implant 
D4277 - Free soft tissue graft procedure - 
first tooth 
D4278 - Free soft tissue graft procedure 
each additional contiguous tooth 
D4322 - Splint - intra-coronal, natural 
teeth or prosthetic crowns 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 49 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
10 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D4323 - Splint - extra-coronal, natural 
teeth or prosthetic crowns 
The following services are limited to one 
time per quadrant every 24 months. 
 
D4341 - Periodontal scaling and root 
planing - four or more teeth per quadrant 
D4342 - Periodontal scaling and root 
planing - one to three teeth per quadrant 
D4346 - Scaling in presence of 
generalized moderate or severe gingival 
inflammation - full mouth, after oral 
evaluation 
100% 
100% 
The following service is limited to a 
frequency to one per lifetime. 
 
D4355 - Full mouth debridement to enable
a comprehensive periodontal evaluation 
and diagnosis on a subsequent visit 
100% 
100% 
The following service is limited to four 
times every 12 months in combination 
with prophylaxis. 
 
D4910 - Periodontal maintenance 
100% 
100% 
Removable Dentures 
The following services are limited to a 
frequency of one every 60 months. 
 
D5110 - Complete denture - maxillary 
D5120 - Complete denture - mandibular 
D5130 - Immediate denture - maxillary 
D5140 - Immediate denture - mandibular 
D5211 - Maxillary partial denture - resin 
base (including retentive/clasping 
materials, rests, and teeth) 
D5212 - Mandibular partial denture - resin 
base (including retentive/clasping 
materials, rests, and teeth) 
D5213 - Maxillary partial denture - cast 
metal framework with resin denture bases 
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests and teeth) 
D5214 - Mandibular partial denture - cast 
metal framework with resin denture bases 
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests and teeth) 
D5221 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth) 
D5222 - Immediate mandibular partial 
denture - resin base (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth) 
D5223 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - cast metal framework with resin 
denture bases (including 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 50 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
11 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth) 
D5224 - Immediate mandibular partial 
denture - cast metal framework with resin 
denture bases (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests and 
teeth) 
D5227 - Immediate maxillary partial 
denture - flexible base (including any 
clasps, rests, and teeth) 
D5228 - Immediate mandibular partial 
denture - flexible base (including any 
clasps, rests, and teeth) 
D5282 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece cast metal (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and 
teeth), maxillary 
D5283 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece cast metal (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and 
teeth), mandibular 
D5284 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece flexible base 
(including retentive/clasping materials, 
rests, and teeth) - per quadrant 
D5286 - Removable unilateral partial 
denture - one piece resin (including 
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and 
teeth) - per quadrant 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D5410 - Adjust complete denture - 
maxillary 
D5411 - Adjust complete denture - 
mandibular 
D5421 - Adjust partial denture - maxillary 
D5422 - Adjust partial denture - 
mandibular 
D5511 - Repair broken complete denture 
base - mandibular 
D5512 - Repair broken complete denture 
base - maxillary 
D5520 - Replace missing or broken teeth 
- complete denture (each tooth) 
D5611 - Repair resin partial denture base 
- mandibular 
D5612 - Repair resin partial denture base 
- maxillary 
D5621 - Repair cast partial framework - 
mandibular 
D5622 - Repair cast partial framework - 
maxillary 
D5630 - Repair or replace broken 
retentive/clasping materials - per tooth 
D5640 - Replace broken teeth - per tooth 
D5650 - Add tooth to existing partial 
denture 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 51 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
12 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D5660 - Add clasp to existing partial 
denture 
The following services are limited to 
rebasing performed more than six months 
after the initial insertion with a frequency 
limitation of one time per 12 months. 
 
D5710 - Rebase complete maxillary 
denture 
D5711 - Rebase complete mandibular 
denture 
D5720 - Rebase maxillary partial denture 
D5721 - Rebase mandibular partial 
denture 
D5725 - Rebase hybrid prosthesis 
D5730 - Reline complete maxillary 
denture (direct) 
D5731 - Reline complete mandibular 
denture (direct) 
D5740 - Reline maxillary partial denture 
(direct) 
D5741 - Reline mandibular partial denture 
(direct) 
D5750 - Reline complete maxillary 
denture (indirect) 
D5751 - Reline complete mandibular 
denture (indirect) 
D5760 - Reline maxillary partial denture 
(indirect) 
D5761 - Reline mandibular partial denture 
(indirect) 
D5876 - Add metal substructure to acrylic 
full denture (per arch) 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D5765 - Soft liner for complete or partial 
removable denture - indirect 
D5850 - Tissue conditioning (maxillary) 
D5851 - Tissue conditioning (mandibular) 
100% 
100% 
Bridges (Fixed partial dentures) 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D6210 - Pontic - cast high noble metal 
D6211 - Pontic - cast predominately base 
metal 
D6212 - Pontic - cast noble metal 
D6214 - Pontic - titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D6240 - Pontic - porcelain fused to high 
noble metal 
D6241 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
predominately base metal 
D6242 - Pontic - porcelain fused to noble 
metal 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 52 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
13 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D6243 - Pontic - porcelain fused to 
titanium and titanium alloys 
D6245 - Pontic - porcelain/ceramic 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D6545 - Retainer - cast metal for resin 
bonded fixed prosthesis 
D6548 - Retainer - porcelain/ceramic for 
resin bonded fixed prosthesis 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to one 
time every 60 months. 
 
D6740 - Retainer crown - 
porcelain/ceramic 
D6750 - Retainer crown - porcelain fused 
to high noble metal 
D6751 - Retainer crown - porcelain fused 
to predominately base metal 
D6752 - Retainer crown - porcelain fused 
to noble metal 
D6753 - Retainer crown - porcelain fused 
to titanium and titanium alloys 
D6780 - Retainer crown - 3/4 cast high 
noble metal 
D6781 - Retainer crown - 3/4 cast 
predominately base metal 
D6782 - Retainer crown - 3/4 cast noble 
metal 
D6783 - Retainer crown - 3/4 
porcelain/ceramic 
D6784 - Retainer crown - 3/4 titanium and 
titanium alloys 
D6790 - Retainer crown - full cast high 
noble metal 
D6791 - Retainer crown - full cast 
predominately base metal 
D6792 - Retainer crown - full cast noble 
metal 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D6930 - Re-cement or re-bond FPD 
D6980 - FPD repair necessitated by 
restorative material failure 
100% 
100% 
Oral Surgery 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7140 - Extraction, erupted tooth or 
exposed root 
D7210 - Surgical removal of erupted tooth 
requiring removal of bone, sectioning of 
tooth, and including elevation of 
mucoperiosteal flap, if indicated 
D7220 - Removal of impacted tooth - soft 
tissue 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 53 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
14 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D7230 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
partially bony 
D7240 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
completely bony 
D7241 - Removal of impacted tooth - 
completely bony with unusual surgical 
complications 
D7250 - Surgical removal or residual tooth
roots 
D7251 - Coronectomy - intentional partial 
tooth removal, impacted teeth only 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7270 - Tooth reimplantation and/or 
stabilization of accidentally evulsed or 
displaced tooth 
100% 
100% 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7280 - Surgical access exposure of an 
unerupted tooth 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7310 - Alveoloplasty in conjunction with 
extractions - four or more teeth or tooth 
spaces, per quadrant 
D7311 - Alveoloplasty in conjunction with 
extraction - one to three teeth or tooth 
spaces, per quadrant 
D7320 - Alveoloplasty not in conjunction 
with extractions - four or more teeth or 
tooth spaces, per quadrant 
D7321 - Alveoloplasty not in conjunction 
with extractions - one to three teeth or 
tooth spaces, per quadrant 
100% 
100% 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7471 - Removal of lateral exostosis 
(maxilla or mandible) 
100% 
100% 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limit. 
 
D7509 - Marsupialization of odontogenic 
cyst 
D7510 - Incision and drainage of abscess, 
intraoral soft tissue 
D7910 - Suture of recent small wounds up 
to 5 cm 
D7953 - Bone replacement graft for ridge 
preservation - per site 
D7961 - Buccal/labial frenectomy 
(frenulectomy) 
D7962 - Lingual frenectomy 
(frenulectomy) 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 54 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
15 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D7971 - Excision of pericoronal gingiva 
The following services are limited to one 
every 36 months. 
 
D7956 - Guided tissue regeneration, 
edentulous area - resorbable barrier, per 
site 
D7957 - Guided tissue regeneration, 
edentulous area - non-resorbable barrier, 
per site 
100% 
100% 
Adjunctive Services 
The following service is not subject to a 
frequency limit; however, it is covered as 
a separate benefit only if no other 
services (other than the exam and 
radiographs) were done on the same 
tooth during the visit. 
 
D9110 - Palliative treatment of dental pain 
- per visit 
100% 
100% 
Covered only when clinically Necessary. 
 
D9222 - Deep sedation/general 
anesthesia - first 15 minutes 
D9223 - Deep sedation/general 
anesthesia - each 15 minute increment 
D9239 - Intravenous moderate 
(conscious) sedation/anesthesia - first 15 
minutes 
D9610 - Therapeutic parenteral drug 
single administration 
100% 
100% 
Covered only when clinically Necessary 
 
D9310 - Consultation (diagnostic service 
provided by a dentist or Physician other 
than the practitioner providing treatment) 
100% 
100% 
The following services are limited to one 
guard every 12 months. 
 
D9944 - Occlusal guard - hard appliance, 
full arch 
D9945 - Occlusal guard - soft appliance, 
full arch 
D9946 - Occlusal guard - hard appliance, 
partial arch 
100% 
100% 
Implant Procedures 
The following services are limited to one 
time every 60 months. 
 
D6010 - Surgical placement of implant 
body: endosteal implant 
D6012 - Surgical placement of interim 
implant body 
D6040 - Surgical placement of eposteal 
implant 
D6050 - Surgical placement: transosteal 
implant 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 55 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
16 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D6055 - Connecting bar - implant 
supported or abutment supported 
D6056 - Prefabricated abutment - 
includes modification and placement 
D6057 - Custom fabricated abutment - 
includes placement 
D6058 - Abutment supported 
porcelain/ceramic crown 
D6059 - Abutment supported porcelain 
fused to metal crown (high noble metal) 
D6060 - Abutment supported porcelain 
fused to metal crown (predominately base 
metal) 
D6061 - Abutment supported porcelain 
fused to metal crown (noble metal) 
D6062 - Abutment supported cast metal 
crown (high noble metal) 
D6063 - Abutment supported cast metal 
crown (predominately base metal) 
D6064 - Abutment supported cast metal 
crown (noble metal) 
D6065 - Implant supported 
porcelain/ceramic crown 
D6066 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to high noble alloys 
D6067 - Implant supported crown - high 
noble alloys 
D6068 - Abutment supported retainer for 
porcelain/ceramic FPD 
D6069 - Abutment supported retainer for 
porcelain fused to metal FPD (high noble 
metal) 
D6070 - Abutment supported retainer for 
porcelain fused to metal FPD 
(predominately base metal) 
D6071 - Abutment supported retainer for 
porcelain fused to metal FPD (noble 
metal) 
D6072 - Abutment supported retainer for 
cast metal FPD (high noble metal) 
D6073 - Abutment supported retainer for 
cast metal FPD (predominately base 
metal) 
D6074 - Abutment supported retainer for 
cast metal FPD (noble metal) 
D6075 - Implant supported retainer for 
ceramic FPD 
D6076 - Implant supported retainer for 
FPD - porcelain fused to high noble alloys 
D6077 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - high noble alloys 
D6080 - Implant maintenance procedure 
D6081 - Scaling and debridement in the 
presence of inflammation or mucositis of a
single implant, including cleaning of the 
implant surfaces, without flap entry and 
closure

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 56 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
17 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D6082 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to predominantly base 
alloys 
D6083 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to noble alloys 
D6084 - Implant supported crown - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D6086 - Implant supported crown - 
predominantly base alloys 
D6087 - Implant supported crown - noble 
alloys 
D6088 - Implant supported crown - 
titanium and titanium alloys 
D6089 - Accessing and retorquing loose 
implant screw per screw 
D6090 - Repair implant supported 
prosthesis, by report 
D6091 - Replacement of replaceable part 
of semi-precision or precision attachment 
of implant/abutment supported prosthesis, 
per attachment 
D6095 - Repair implant abutment, by 
report 
D6096 - Remove broken implant retaining 
screw 
D6097 - Abutment supported crown - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D6098 - Implant supported retainer - 
porcelain fused to predominantly base 
alloys 
D6099 - Implant supported retainer for 
FPD - porcelain fused to noble alloys 
D6100 - Surgical removal of implant body 
D6101 - Debridement peri-implant defect 
D6102 - Debridement and osseous 
contouring of a peri-implant defect 
D6103 - Bone graft for repair of peri-
implant defect 
D6104 - Bone graft at time of implant 
replacement 
D6105 - Removal of implant body not 
requiring bone removal nor flap elevation 
D6118 - Implant/abutment supported 
interim fixed denture for edentulous arch - 
mandibular 
D6119 - Implant/abutment supported 
interim fixed denture for edentulous arch - 
maxillary 
D6120 - Implant supported retainer - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D6121 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - predominantly base alloys 
D6122 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - noble alloys

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 57 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
18 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D6123 - Implant supported retainer for 
metal FPD - titanium and titanium alloys 
D6190 - Radiographic/surgical implant 
index, by report 
D6191 - Semi-precision abutment - 
placement 
D6192 - Semi-precision attachment - 
placement 
D6195 - Abutment supported retainer - 
porcelain fused to titanium and titanium 
alloys 
D6197 - Replacement of restorative 
material used to close an access opening 
of a screw-retained implant supported 
prosthesis, per implant 
The following services are limited to one 
every 36 months. 
 
D6106 - Guided tissue regeneration - 
resorbable barrier, per implant 
D6107 - Guided tissue regeneration - non-
resorbable barrier, per implant 
100% 
100% 
Medically Necessary Orthodontics 
Benefits for comprehensive orthodontic treatment are approved by the Company, only in those instances that are related
to an identifiable syndrome such as cleft lip and or palate, Crouzon’s Syndrome, Treacher-Collins Syndrome, Pierre-Robin
Syndrome, hemi-facial atrophy, hemi-facial hypertrophy; or other severe craniofacial deformities which result in a physically
handicapping malocclusion as determined by the Company’s dental consultants. Benefits are not available for
comprehensive orthodontic treatment for crowded dentitions (crooked teeth), excessive spacing between teeth,
temporomandibular joint (TMJ) conditions and/or having horizontal/vertical (overjet/overbite) discrepancies. 
 
All orthodontic treatment must be prior authorized. 
 
Benefits will be paid in equal monthly installments over the course of the entire orthodontic treatment plan, starting on the 
date that the orthodontic bands or appliances are first placed, or on the date a one-step orthodontic procedure is 
performed. 
 
Services or supplies furnished by a Dental Provider in order to diagnose or correct misalignment of the teeth or the bite.
Benefits are available only when the service or supply is determined to be medically Necessary. 
The following services are not subject to a 
frequency limitation as long as benefits 
have been prior authorized. 
 
D8010 - Limited orthodontic treatment of 
the primary dentition 
D8020 - Limited orthodontic treatment of 
the transitional dentition 
D8030 - Limited orthodontic treatment of 
the adolescent dentition 
D8070 - Comprehensive orthodontic 
treatment of the transitional dentition 
D8080 - Comprehensive orthodontic 
treatment of the adolescent dentition 
D8210 - Removable appliance therapy 
D8220 - Fixed appliance therapy 
D8660 - Pre-orthodontic treatment visit 
D8670 - Periodic orthodontic treatment 
visit 
100% 
100%

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 58 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
19 
 
Amounts shown below in the Schedule of Benefits are based on Allowed Dental Amounts. 
What Are the Procedure Codes, Benefit 
Description and Frequency 
Limitations? 
Network Benefits 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits 
D8680 - Orthodontic retention 
D8695 - Removal of fixed orthodontic 
appliances for reasons other than 
completion of treatment 
D8696 - Repair of orthodontic appliance - 
maxillary 
D8697 - Repair of orthodontic appliance - 
mandibular 
D8698 - Re-cement or re-bond fixed 
retainer - maxillary 
D8699 - Re-cement or re-bond fixed 
retainer - mandibular 
D8701 - Repair of fixed retainer, includes 
reattachment - maxillary 
D8702 - Repair of fixed retainer, includes 
reattachment - mandibular 
 
Section 3: Pediatric Dental Exclusions 
 
Except as may be specifically provided in this endorsement under Section 2: Benefits for Covered Dental Services, benefits 
are not provided under this endorsement for the following: 
1. Any Dental Service or Procedure not listed as a Covered Dental Service in this endorsement in Section 2: Benefits for 
Covered Dental Services. 
2. Dental Services that are not Necessary. 
3. Hospitalization or other facility charges. 
4. Any Dental Procedure performed solely for cosmetic/aesthetic reasons. (Cosmetic procedures are those procedures 
that improve physical appearance.) 
5. Reconstructive surgery, regardless of whether or not the surgery is incidental to a dental disease, Injury, or Congenital 
Condition, when the primary purpose is to improve physiological functioning of the involved part of the body. 
6. Any Dental Procedure not directly associated with dental disease. 
7. Any Dental Procedure not performed in a dental setting. 
8. Procedures that are considered to be Experimental or Investigational or Unproven Services. This includes 
pharmacological regimens not accepted by the American Dental Association (ADA) Council on Dental Therapeutics. 
The fact that an Experimental, or Investigational or Unproven Service, treatment, device or pharmacological regimen is 
the only available treatment for a particular condition will not result in benefits if the procedure is considered to be 
Experimental or Investigational or Unproven Service in the treatment of that particular condition. 
9. Drugs/medications, received with or without a prescription, unless they are dispensed and utilized in the dental office 
during the patient visit. 
10. Setting of facial bony fractures and any treatment associated with the dislocation of facial skeletal hard tissue. 
11. Treatment of benign neoplasms, cysts, or other pathology involving benign lesions, except excisional removal. 
Treatment of malignant neoplasms or Congenital Conditions of hard or soft tissue, including excision. 
12. Replacement of complete dentures, fixed and removable partial dentures or crowns and implants, implant crowns and 
prosthesis if damage or breakage was directly related to provider error. This type of replacement is the responsibility of 
the Dental Provider. If replacement is Necessary because of patient non-compliance, the patient is liable for the cost of 
replacement. 
13. Services related to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ), either bilateral or unilateral. Upper and lower jaw bone surgery 
(including surgery related to the temporomandibular joint). Orthognathic surgery, jaw alignment, and treatment for the 
temporomandibular joint. 
14. Charges for not keeping a scheduled appointment without giving the dental office 24 hours notice. 
15. Expenses for Dental Procedures begun prior to the Insured Person becoming enrolled for coverage provided through 
this endorsement to the Policy. 
16. Dental Services otherwise covered under the Policy, but rendered after the date individual coverage under the Policy 
terminates, including Dental Services for dental conditions arising prior to the date individual coverage under the Policy 
terminates. 
17. Services rendered by a provider with the same legal residence as the Insured Person or who is a member of the Insured 
Person’s family, including spouse, brother, sister, parent or child. 
18. Foreign Services are not covered unless required for a Dental Emergency.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 59 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
20 
 
19. Fixed or removable prosthodontic restoration procedures for complete oral rehabilitation or reconstruction. 
20. Procedures related to the reconstruction of a patient's correct vertical dimension of occlusion (VDO). 
21. Billing for incision and drainage if the involved abscessed tooth is removed on the same date of service. 
22. Placement of fixed partial dentures solely for the purpose of achieving periodontal stability. 
23. Acupuncture; acupressure and other forms of alternative treatment, whether or not used as anesthesia. 
24. Orthodontic coverage does not include the installation of a space maintainer, any treatment related to treatment of the 
temporomandibular joint, any surgical procedure to correct a malocclusion, replacement of lost or broken retainers 
and/or habit appliances, and any fixed or removable interceptive orthodontic appliances previously submitted for 
payment under the Policy. 
 
Section 4: Claims for Pediatric Dental Services 
 
When obtaining Dental Services from an out-of-Network Dental Provider, the Insured Person will be required to pay all billed 
charges directly to the Dental Provider. The Insured Person may then seek reimbursement from the Company. The Insured 
Person must provide the Company with all of the information identified below. 
 
Reimbursement for Dental Services 
 
The Insured Person is responsible for sending a request for reimbursement to the Company, on a form provided by or 
satisfactory to the Company. 
 
Claim Forms. It is not necessary to include a claim form with the proof of loss. However, the proof must include all of the 
following information: 
• 
Insured Person's name and address. 
• 
Insured Person's identification number. 
• 
The name and address of the provider of the service(s). 
• 
A diagnosis from the Dental Provider including a complete dental chart showing extractions, fillings or other dental 
services rendered before the charge was incurred for the claim. 
• 
Radiographs, lab or hospital reports. 
• 
Casts, molds or study models. 
• 
Itemized bill which includes the CPT or ADA codes or description of each charge. 
• 
The date the dental disease began. 
• 
A statement indicating that the Insured Person is or is not enrolled for coverage under any other health or dental 
insurance plan or program. If enrolled for other coverage, The Insured Person must include the name of the other 
carrier(s). 
 
To file a claim, submit the above information to the Company at the following address: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Dental 
 
ATTN: Claims Unit 
 
P. O. Box 30567 
 
Salt Lake City, UT 84130-0567 
 
If the Insured Person would like to use a claim form, call Customer Service at the number listed on the Insured’s Dental ID 
Card. If the Insured Person does not receive the claim form within 15 calendar days of the request, the proof of loss may 
be submitted with the information stated above. 
 
Section 5: Defined Terms for Pediatric Dental Services 
 
The following definitions are in addition to those listed in the Definitions section of the Certificate of Coverage: 
 
Allowed Dental Amounts - Allowed Dental Amounts for Covered Dental Services, incurred while the Policy is in effect, are 
determined as stated below: 
• 
For Network Benefits, when Covered Dental Services are received from Network Dental Providers, Allowed Dental 
Amounts are the Company’s contracted fee(s) for Covered Dental Services with that provider. 
• 
For Out-of-Network Benefits, when Covered Dental Services are received from out-of-Network Dental Providers, 
Allowed Dental Amounts are the Usual and Customary Fees, as defined below. 
 
Covered Dental Service - a Dental Service or Dental Procedure for which benefits are provided under this endorsement.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 60 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
21 
 
Dental Emergency - a dental condition or symptom resulting from dental disease which arises suddenly and, in the 
judgment of a reasonable person, requires immediate care and treatment, and such treatment is sought or received within 
24 hours of onset. 
 
Dental Provider - any dentist or dental practitioner who is duly licensed and qualified under the law of jurisdiction in which 
treatment is received to render Dental Services, perform dental surgery or administer anesthetics for dental surgery. 
 
Dental Service or Dental Procedures - dental care or treatment provided by a Dental Provider to the Insured Person while 
the Policy is in effect, provided such care or treatment is recognized by the Company as a generally accepted form of care 
or treatment according to prevailing standards of dental practice. 
 
Experimental, Investigational, or Unproven Service - medical, dental, surgical, diagnostic, or other health care services, 
technologies, supplies, treatments, procedures, drug therapies or devices that, at the time the Company makes a 
determination regarding coverage in a particular case, is determined to be: 
• 
Not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be lawfully marketed for the proposed use and not 
identified in the American Hospital Formulary Service or the United States Pharmacopoeia Dispensing Information as 
appropriate for the proposed use; or 
• 
Subject to review and approval by any institutional review board for the proposed use; or 
• 
The subject of an ongoing clinical trial that meets the definition of a Phase 1, 2, or 3 clinical trial set forth in the FDA 
regulations, regardless of whether the trial is actually subject to FDA oversight; or 
• 
Not determined through prevailing peer-reviewed professional literature to be safe and effective for treating or 
diagnosing the condition or Sickness for which its use is proposed. 
 
Foreign Services - services provided outside the U.S. and U.S. Territories. 
 
Necessary - Dental Services and supplies under this endorsement which are determined by the Company through case-
by-case assessments of care based on accepted dental practices to be appropriate and are all of the following: 
• 
Necessary to meet the basic dental needs of the Insured Person. 
• 
Provided in the most cost-efficient manner and type of setting appropriate for the delivery of the Dental Service. 
• 
Consistent in type, frequency and duration of treatment with scientifically based guidelines of national clinical, 
research, or health care coverage organizations or governmental agencies that are accepted by the Company. 
• 
Consistent with the diagnosis of the condition. 
• 
Required for reasons other than the convenience of the Insured Person or his or her Dental Provider. 
• 
Demonstrated through prevailing peer-reviewed dental literature to be either: 
▪ 
Safe and effective for treating or diagnosing the condition or sickness for which their use is proposed; or 
▪ 
Safe with promising efficacy 
o 
For treating a life threatening dental disease or condition. 
o 
Provided in a clinically controlled research setting. 
o 
Using a specific research protocol that meets standards equivalent to those defined by the National Institutes 
of Health. 
 
(For the purpose of this definition, the term life threatening is used to describe dental diseases or sicknesses or conditions, 
which are more likely than not to cause death within one year of the date of the request for treatment.) 
 
The fact that a Dental Provider has performed or prescribed a procedure or treatment or the fact that it may be the only 
treatment for a particular dental disease does not mean that it is a Necessary Covered Dental Service as defined in this 
endorsement. The definition of Necessary used in this endorsement relates only to benefits under this endorsement and 
differs from the way in which a Dental Provider engaged in the practice of dentistry may define necessary. 
 
Network - a group of Dental Providers who are subject to a participation agreement in effect with the Company, directly or 
through another entity, to provide Dental Services to Insured Persons. The participation status of providers will change 
from time to time. 
 
Network Benefits - benefits available for Covered Dental Services when provided by a Dental Provider who is a Network 
Dentist. 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits - benefits available for Covered Dental Services obtained from out-of-Network Dentists. 
 
Usual and Customary Fee - Usual and Customary Fees are calculated by the Company based on available data resources 
of competitive fees in that geographic area.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 61 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END PEDDENT (ABOR) 
22 
 
Usual and Customary Fees must not exceed the fees that the provider would charge any similarly situated payor for the 
same services. 
 
Usual and Customary Fees are determined solely in accordance with the Company’s reimbursement policy guidelines. The 
Company’s reimbursement policy guidelines are developed by the Company, in its discretion, following evaluation and 
validation of all provider billings in accordance with one or more of the following methodologies: 
• 
As indicated in the most recent edition of the Current Procedural Terminology (publication of the American Dental 
Association). 
• 
As reported by generally recognized professionals or publications. 
• 
As utilized for Medicare. 
• 
As determined by medical or dental staff and outside medical or dental consultants. 
• 
Pursuant to other appropriate source or determination that the Company accepts.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 62 =====

COL-17 (PY23) END PEDVIS 
1 
 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT 
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
the terms and conditions of the Policy not inconsistent therewith. 
 
 
 
President 
 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amended as follows: 
 
Pediatric Vision Care Services Benefits 
 
Benefits are provided under this endorsement for Vision Care Services, as described below, for Insured Persons under the 
age of 19. Benefits under this endorsement terminate on the earlier of: 1) last day of the month the Insured Person reaches 
the age of 19; or 2) the date the Insured Person’s coverage under the Policy terminates. 
 
Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services 
 
Benefits are available for pediatric Vision Care Services from a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network or an out-of-Network 
Vision Care Provider. To find a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person may call the 
provider locator service at 1-800-839-3242. The Insured Person may also access a listing of UnitedHealthcare Vision 
Network Vision Care Providers on the Internet at www.myuhcvision.com. 
 
When Vision Care Services are obtained from an out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person will be required 
to pay all billed charges at the time of service. The Insured Person may then seek reimbursement from the Company as 
described in this endorsement under Section 3: Claims for Vision Care Services. Reimbursement will be limited to the 
amounts stated below. 
 
When obtaining these Vision Care Services from a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured 
Person will be required to pay any Copayments at the time of service. 
 
Network Benefits: 
 
Benefits for Vision Care Services are determined based on the negotiated contract fee between the Company and the Vision 
Care Provider. The Company’s negotiated rate with the Vision Care Provider is ordinarily lower than the Vision Care 
Provider's billed charge. 
 
Out-of-Network Benefits: 
 
Benefits for Vision Care Services from out-of-Network providers are determined as a percentage of the provider's billed 
charge. 
 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum - any amount the Insured Person pays in Coinsurance for Vision Care Services under this 
endorsement applies to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits. Any amount the Insured 
Person pays in Copayments for Vision Care Services under this endorsement applies to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum stated 
in the Policy Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Policy Deductible 
 
Benefits for pediatric Vision Care Services provided under this endorsement are not subject to any Policy Deductible stated 
in the Policy Schedule of Benefits. Any amount the Insured Person pays in Copayments for Vision Care Services under this 
endorsement does not apply to the Policy Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 63 =====

COL-17 (PY23) END PEDVIS 
2 
 
What Are the Benefit Descriptions? 
 
Benefits 
 
When benefit limits apply, the limit stated refers to any combination of Network Benefits and out-of-Network Benefits unless 
otherwise specifically stated. 
 
Benefit limits are calculated on a Policy Year basis unless otherwise specifically stated. 
 
Frequency of Service Limits 
 
Benefits are provided for the Vision Care Services described below, subject to Frequency of Service limits and Copayments 
and Coinsurance stated under each Vision Care Service in the Schedule of Benefits below. 
 
Routine Vision Examination 
 
A routine vision examination of the eyes and according to the standards of care in the area where the Insured Person 
resides, including: 
 
• 
A patient history that includes reasons for exam, patient medical/eye history, and current medications. 
• 
Visual acuity with each eye and both eyes, far and near, with and without glasses or contact lenses (for example, 
20/20 and 20/40). 
• 
Cover test at 20 feet and 16 inches (checks how the eyes work together as a team). 
• 
Ocular motility (how the eyes move) near point convergence (how well eyes move together for near vision tasks, such 
as reading), and depth perception (3D vision). 
• 
Pupil reaction to light and focusing. 
• 
Exam of the eye lids, lashes, and outside of the eye. 
• 
Retinoscopy (when needed) – helps to determine the starting point of the refraction which determines the lens power 
of the glasses. 
• 
Phorometry/Binocular testing – far and near: how well eyes work as a team. 
• 
Tests of accommodation – how well the Insured Person sees up close (for example, reading). 
• 
Tonometry, when indicated: test pressure in eye (glaucoma check). 
• 
Ophthalmoscopic examination of the inside of the eye. 
• 
Visual field testing. 
• 
Color vision testing. 
• 
Diagnosis/prognosis. 
• 
Specific recommendations. 
 
Post exam procedures will be performed only when materials are required. 
 
Or, in lieu of a complete exam, Retinoscopy (when applicable) - objective refraction to determine lens power of corrective 
lenses and subjective refraction to determine lens power of corrective lenses. 
 
Eyeglass Lenses 
 
Lenses that are placed in eyeglass frames and worn on the face to correct visual acuity limitations. 
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose only one of either eyeglasses (Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames) or 
Contact Lenses. If the Insured Person chooses more than one of these Vision Care Services, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service. 
 
If the Insured Person purchases Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames at the same time from the same UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network Vision Care Provider, only one Copayment will apply to those Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames 
together. 
 
Eyeglass Frames 
 
A structure that contains eyeglass lenses, holding the lenses in front of the eyes and supported by the bridge of the nose.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 64 =====

COL-17 (PY23) END PEDVIS 
3 
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose only one of either eyeglasses (Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames) or 
Contact Lenses. If the Insured Person chooses more than one of these Vision Care Services, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service. 
 
If the Insured Person purchases Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames at the same time from the same UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network Vision Care Provider, only one Copayment will apply to those Eyeglass Lenses and Eyeglass Frames 
together. 
 
Contact Lenses 
 
Lenses worn on the surface of the eye to correct visual acuity limitations. 
 
Benefits include the fitting/evaluation fees, contact lenses, and follow-up care. 
 
The Insured Person is eligible to choose only one of either eyeglasses (Eyeglass Lenses and/or Eyeglass Frames) or 
Contact Lenses. If the Insured Person chooses more than one of these Vision Care Services, the Company will pay benefits 
for only one Vision Care Service. 
 
Necessary Contact Lenses 
 
Benefits are available when a Vision Care Provider has determined a need for and has prescribed the contact lens. Such 
determination will be made by the Vision Care Provider and not by the Company. 
 
Contact lenses are necessary if the Insured Person has any of the following: 
 
• 
Keratoconus. 
• 
Anisometropia. 
• 
Irregular corneal/astigmatism. 
• 
Aphakia. 
• 
Facial deformity. 
• 
Corneal deformity. 
• 
Pathological myopia. 
• 
Aniseikonia. 
• 
Aniridia. 
• 
Post-traumatic disorders.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 65 =====

COL-17 (PY23) END PEDVIS 
4 
 
 
Schedule of Benefits 
 
Vision Care Service 
What is the Frequency 
of Service? 
Network Benefit 
Out-of-Network Benefit 
Routine Vision 
Examination or Refraction 
only in lieu of a complete 
exam. 
Once per year. 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
Eyeglass Lenses 
Once per year. 
 
 
• 
Single Vision 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Bifocal 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Trifocal 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Lenticular 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
Lens Extras 
Once per year. 
 
 
• 
Polycarbonate lenses 
 
100% 
100% of the billed charge. 
• 
Standard scratch-
resistant coating 
 
100% 
100% of the billed charge. 
 
Vision Care Service 
What is the Frequency 
of Service? 
Network Benefit 
Out-of-Network Benefit 
Eyeglass Frames 
Once per year. 
 
 
• 
Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost up to $130. 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $130 - 
160. 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $160 - 
200. 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost of $200 - 
250. 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Eyeglass frames with a 
retail cost greater than 
$250. 
 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
 
Vision Care Service 
What is the Frequency 
of Service? 
Network Benefit 
Out-of-Network Benefit 
Contact Lenses Fitting & 
Evaluation 
Once per year. 
100% 
100% of the billed charge. 
Contact Lenses 
 
 
 
• 
Covered Contact Lens 
Selection 
Limited to a 12 month 
supply. 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
• 
Necessary Contact 
Lenses 
Limited to a 12 month 
supply. 
100% 
60% of the billed charge. 
 
Section 2: Pediatric Vision Exclusions 
 
Except as may be specifically provided in this endorsement under Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services, 
benefits are not provided under this endorsement for the following: 
 
1. Medical or surgical treatment for eye disease which requires the services of a Physician and for which benefits are 
available as stated in the policy. 
2. Non-prescription items (e.g. Plano lenses). 
3. Replacement or repair of lenses and/or frames that have been lost or broken. 
4. Optional Lens Extras not listed in Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services. 
5. Missed appointment charges. 
6. Applicable sales tax charged on Vision Care Services.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 66 =====

COL-17 (PY23) END PEDVIS 
5 
 
 
Section 3: Claims for Pediatric Vision Care Services 
 
When obtaining Vision Care Services from an out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, the Insured Person will be required to 
pay all billed charges directly to the Vision Care Provider. The Insured Person may then seek reimbursement from the 
Company. Information about claim timelines and responsibilities in the General Provisions section in the Certificate of 
Coverage applies to Vision Care Services provided under this endorsement, except that when the Insured Person submits 
a Vision Services claim, the Insured Person must provide the Company with all of the information identified below. 
 
Reimbursement for Vision Care Services 
 
To file a claim for reimbursement for Vision Care Services provided by an out-of-Network Vision Care Provider, or for Vision 
Care Services covered as reimbursements (whether or not rendered by a UnitedHealthcare Vision Network Vision Care 
Provider or an out-of-Network Vision Care Provider), the Insured Person must provide all of the following information at the 
address specified below: 
 
• 
Insured Person’s itemized receipts. 
• 
Insured Person's name. 
• 
Insured Person's identification number from the ID card. 
• 
Insured Person's date of birth. 
 
Submit the above information to the Company: 
 
By mail: 
 
Claims Department 
P.O. Box 30978 
Salt Lake City, UT 84130 
 
By facsimile (fax): 
248-733-6060 
 
Section 4: Defined Terms for Pediatric Vision Care Services 
 
The following definitions are in addition to those listed in Definitions section of the Certificate of Coverage: 
 
Covered Contact Lens Selection - a selection of available contact lenses that may be obtained from a UnitedHealthcare 
Vision Network Vision Care Provider on a covered-in-full basis, subject to payment of any applicable Copayment. 
 
UnitedHealthcare Vision Network - any optometrist, ophthalmologist, optician or other person designated by the Company 
who provides Vision Care Services for which benefits are available under the Policy. 
 
Vision Care Provider - any optometrist, ophthalmologist, optician or other person who may lawfully provide Vision Care 
Services. 
 
Vision Care Service - any service or item listed in this endorsement in Section 1: Benefits for Pediatric Vision Care Services.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 67 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
1 
 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT 
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
of the terms and conditions of the Policy not inconsistent therewith. 
 
 
 
President 
 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amended as follows: 
 
UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy (UHCP) Prescription Drug Benefits 
 
When Are Benefits Available for Prescription Drug Products? 
 
Benefits are available for Prescription Drug Products when dispensed at a UHCP Network Pharmacy as specified in the 
Policy Schedule of Benefits subject to all terms of the Policy and the provisions, definitions and exclusions specified in this 
endorsement. 
 
Benefits for Prescription Drug Products are subject to supply limits and Copayments and/or Coinsurance or other payments 
that vary depending on which of the tiers of the Prescription Drug List the Prescription Drug Product is placed. Refer to the 
Policy Schedule of Benefits for applicable supply limits and Copayments and/or Coinsurance requirements. 
 
Benefit for Prescription Drug Products are available when the Prescription Drug Product meets the definition of a Covered 
Medical Expense. 
 
The Insured must either show their ID card to the Network Pharmacy when the prescription is filled or provide the Network 
Pharmacy with identifying information that can be verified by the Company during regular business hours. If the Insured 
does not show their ID card to the Network Pharmacy or provide verifiable information, they will need to pay for the 
Prescription Drug at the pharmacy. 
 
The Insured may then submit a reimbursement form along with the paid receipts in order to be reimbursed. Insureds may 
obtain reimbursement forms by visiting www.uhcsr.com/ASU and logging in to their online account or by calling Customer 
Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Information on Network Pharmacies is available at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
When prescriptions are filled at pharmacies outside a Network Pharmacy, the Insured must pay for the Prescription Drugs 
out of pocket and submit the receipts for reimbursement as described in the How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness 
Benefits section in the Certificate of Coverage. 
 
Prescription Drug Deductible 
 
The Insured Person is responsible for paying the Prescription Drug Deductible stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits 
before benefits for Prescription Drug Products are available. 
 
The Insured Person is not responsible for paying a Deductible for PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive Care Medications.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 68 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
2 
 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance Amount 
 
For Prescription Drug Products at a retail Network Pharmacy, Insured Persons are responsible for paying the lowest of: 
• 
The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance. 
• 
The Network Pharmacy’s Usual and Customary Charge for the Prescription Drug Product. 
• 
The Prescription Drug Charge for that Prescription Drug Product. 
 
For Prescription Drug Products from a mail order Network Pharmacy, Insured Persons are responsible for paying the lower 
of: 
• 
The applicable Copayment and/or Coinsurance; or 
• 
The Prescription Drug Charge for that Prescription Drug Product. 
 
The Insured Person is not responsible for paying a Copayment and/or Coinsurance for PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive 
Care Medications. 
 
How Do Supply Limits Apply? 
 
Benefits for Prescription Drug Products are subject to supply limits as written by the Physician and the supply limits that are 
stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits, unless adjusted based on the drug manufacturer’s packaging size. For a single 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance, the Insured may receive a Prescription Drug Product up to the stated supply limit. 
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is packaged or designed to deliver in a manner that provides more than a consecutive 
31-day supply, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed. 
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is dispensed from a mail order Network Pharmacy or a Preferred 90 Day Retail Network 
Pharmacy, the Prescription Drug Product is subject to the supply limit stated in the Policy Schedule of Benefits, unless 
adjusted based on the drug manufacturer’s packaging size, or based on supply limits. 
 
Note: Some products are subject to additional supply limits based on criteria that the Company has developed. Supply 
limits are subject, from time to time, to the Company’s review and change. This may limit the amount dispensed per 
Prescription Order or Refill and/or the amount dispensed per month's supply or may require that a minimum amount be 
dispensed. 
 
The Insured may find out whether a Prescription Drug Product has a supply limit for dispensing by contacting the Company 
at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
What Happens When a Brand-name Drug Becomes Available as a Generic? 
 
If a Generic becomes available for a Brand-name Prescription Drug Product, the tier placement of the Brand-name 
Prescription Drug may change. Therefore, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance may change or the Insured will no longer 
have benefits for that particular Brand-name Prescription Drug Product. 
 
What Happens When a Biosimilar Product Becomes Available for a Reference Product? 
 
If a biosimilar becomes available for a reference product (a biological Prescription Drug Product), the tier placement of the 
reference product may change. Therefore, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance may change or the Insured will no longer 
have benefits for that particular reference product. 
 
Designated Pharmacies 
 
If the Insured requires certain Prescription Drug Products, including, but not limited to, Specialty Prescription Drug Products, 
the Company may direct the Insured to a Designated Pharmacy with whom the Company has an arrangement to provide 
those Prescription Drug Products. 
 
If the Insured is directed to a Designated Pharmacy and chooses not to obtain their Prescription Drug Product from a 
Designated Pharmacy, the Insured may opt-out of the Designated Pharmacy program at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling 
Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
If the Insured opts-out of the program and fills their Prescription Drug Product at a non-Designated Pharmacy but does not 
inform the Company, the Insured will be responsible for the entire cost of the Prescription Drug Product.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 69 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
3 
 
If the Insured is directed to a Designated Pharmacy and has informed the Company of their decision not to obtain their 
Prescription Drug Product from a Designated Pharmacy, benefits will be paid based on the out-of-Network Benefit for that 
Prescription Drug Product. 
 
For a Specialty Prescription Drug Product, if the Insured chooses to obtain their Specialty Prescription Drug Product at a 
Non-Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, the Insured will be required to pay 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy 
Copayment and/or 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy Coinsurance (up to 50% of the Prescription Drug Charge) based 
on the applicable tier. 
 
Specialty Prescription Drug Products 
 
Benefits are provided for Specialty Prescription Drug Products. 
 
If the Insured requires Specialty Prescription Drug Products, the Company may direct the Insured to a Designated Pharmacy 
with whom the Company has an arrangement to provide those Specialty Prescription Drug Products. 
 
If the Insured is directed to a Designated Pharmacy and the Insured has informed the Company of their decision not to 
obtain their Specialty Prescription Drug Product from a Designated Pharmacy, and the Insured chooses to obtain their 
Specialty Prescription Drug Product at a Non-Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, the Insured will be required to pay 2 
times the retail Network Pharmacy Copayment and/or 2 times the retail Network Pharmacy Coinsurance (up to 50% of the 
Prescription Drug Charge) based on the applicable tier. 
 
The Company designates certain Network Pharmacies to be Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacies. The Company may 
periodically change the Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy designation of a Network Pharmacy. These changes may 
occur without prior notice to the Insured unless required by law. The Insured may find out whether a Network Pharmacy is 
a Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Please see the Definitions Section for a full description of Specialty Prescription Drug Product and Designated Pharmacy. 
 
The following supply limits apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Products. 
 
As written by the Physician, up to a consecutive 31-day supply of a Specialty Prescription Drug Product, unless adjusted 
based on the drug manufacturer’s packaging size, or based on supply limits. 
 
When a Specialty Prescription Drug Product is packaged or designed to deliver in a manner that provides more than a 
consecutive 31-day supply, the Copayment and/or Coinsurance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed. 
 
If a Specialty Prescription Drug Product is provided for less than or more than a 31-day supply, the Copayment and/or 
Coinsurance that applies will reflect the number of days dispensed. 
 
Supply limits apply to Specialty Prescription Drug Products obtained at a Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, a Non-
Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy, a mail order Network Pharmacy or a Designated Pharmacy. 
 
Do Prior Authorization Requirements Apply? 
 
Before certain Prescription Drug Products are dispensed at a Network Pharmacy, either the Insured’s Physician, Insured’s 
pharmacist or the Insured is required to obtain prior authorization from the Company or the Company’s designee. The 
reason for obtaining prior authorization from the Company is to determine whether the Prescription Drug Product, in 
accordance with the Company’s approved guidelines, is each of the following: 
• 
It meets the definition of a Covered Medical Expense. 
• 
It is not an Experimental or Investigational or Unproven Service. 
 
If the Insured does not obtain prior authorization from the Company before the Prescription Drug Product is dispensed, the 
Insured may pay more for that Prescription Order or Refill. The Prescription Drug Products requiring prior authorization are 
subject, from time to time, to the Company’s review and change. There may be certain Prescription Drug Products that 
require the Insured to notify the Company directly rather than the Insured’s Physician or pharmacist. The Insured may 
determine whether a particular Prescription Drug requires prior authorization at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer 
Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
If the Insured does not obtain prior authorization from the Company before the Prescription Drug Product is dispensed, the 
Insured can ask the Company to consider reimbursement after the Insured receives the Prescription Drug Product. The 
Insured will be required to pay for the Prescription Drug Product at the pharmacy.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 70 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
4 
 
 
When the Insured submits a claim on this basis, the Insured may pay more because they did not obtain prior authorization 
from the Company before the Prescription Drug Product was dispensed. The amount the Insured is reimbursed will be 
based on the Prescription Drug Charge (for Prescription Drug Products from a Network Pharmacy) or the Out-of-Network 
Reimbursement Rate (for Prescription Drug Products from an out-of-Network Pharmacy), less the required Copayment 
and/or Coinsurance and any Deductible that applies. 
 
Benefits may not be available for the Prescription Drug Product after the Company reviews the documentation provided and 
determines that the Prescription Drug Product is not a Covered Medical Expense or it is an Experimental or Investigational 
or Unproven Service. 
 
Does Step Therapy Apply? 
 
Certain Prescription Drug Products for which benefits are provided are subject to step therapy requirements. In order to 
receive benefits for such Prescription Drug Products an Insured must use a different Prescription Drug Product(s) first. 
 
The Insured may find out whether a Prescription Drug Product is subject to step therapy requirements at 
www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
When Does the Company Limit Selection of Pharmacies? 
 
If the Company determines that an Insured Person may be using Prescription Drug Products in a harmful or abusive manner, 
or with harmful frequency, the Insured Person’s choice of Network Pharmacies may be limited. If this happens, the Company 
may require the Insured to choose one Network Pharmacy that will provide and coordinate all future pharmacy services. 
Benefits will be paid only if the Insured uses the chosen Network Pharmacy. If the Insured does not make a selection within 
31 days of the date the Company notifies the Insured, the Company will choose a Network Pharmacy for the Insured. 
 
Coverage Policies and Guidelines 
 
The Company’s Prescription Drug List (PDL) Management Committee makes tier placement changes on the Company’s 
behalf. The PDL Management Committee places FDA-approved Prescription Drug Products into tiers by considering a 
number of factors including clinical and economic factors. Clinical factors may include review of the place in therapy or use 
as compared to other similar product or services, site of care, relative safety or effectiveness of the Prescription Drug 
Product, as well as if certain supply limits or prior authorization requirements should apply. Economic factors may include, 
but are not limited to, the Prescription Drug Product’s total cost including any rebates and evaluations on the cost 
effectiveness of the Prescription Drug Product. 
 
Some Prescription Drug Products are more cost effective for treating specific conditions as compared to others, therefore; 
a Prescription Drug may be placed on multiple tiers according to the condition for which the Prescription Drug Product was 
prescribed to treat. 
 
The Company may, from time to time, change the placement of a Prescription Drug Product among the tiers. These changes 
generally will happen quarterly, but no more than six times per calendar year. These changes may happen without prior 
notice to the Insured. 
 
When considering a Prescription Drug Product for tier placement, the PDL Management Committee reviews clinical and 
economic factors regarding Insured Persons as a general population. Whether a particular Prescription Drug Product is 
appropriate for an individual Insured Person is a determination that is made by the Insured Person and the prescribing 
Physician. 
 
NOTE: The tier placement of a Prescription Drug Product may change, from time to time, based on the process described 
above. As a result of such changes, the Insured may be required to pay more or less for that Prescription Drug Product. 
Please access www.uhcsr.com/ASU or call Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716 for the most up-to-date tier placement. 
 
Rebates and Other Payments 
 
The Company may receive rebates for certain drugs included on the Prescription Drug List. The Company does not pass 
these rebates on to the Insured Person, nor are they applied to the Insured’s Deductible or taken into account in determining 
the Insured’s Copayments and/or Coinsurance.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 71 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
5 
 
The Company, and a number of its affiliated entities, conducts business with various pharmaceutical manufacturers 
separate and apart from this Prescription Drug Endorsement. Such business may include, but is not limited to, data 
collection, consulting, educational grants and research. Amounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers pursuant to 
such arrangements are not related to this Prescription Drug Benefit. The Company is not required to pass on to the Insured, 
and does not pass on to the Insured, such amounts. 
 
Definitions 
 
Brand-name means a Prescription Drug Product: (1) which is manufactured and marketed under a trademark or name by 
a specific drug manufacturer; or (2) that the Company identifies as a Brand-name product, based on available data 
resources. This includes data sources such as Medi-Span that classify drugs as either brand or generic based on a number 
of factors. Not all products identified as a "brand name" by the manufacturer, pharmacy, or an Insured’s Physician will be 
classified as Brand-name by the Company. 
 
Chemically Equivalent means when Prescription Drug Products contain the same active ingredient. 
 
Designated Pharmacy means a pharmacy that has entered into an agreement with the Company or with an organization 
contracting on the Company’s behalf, to provide specific Prescription Drug Products. This includes Specialty Prescription 
Drug Products. Not all Network Pharmacies are a Designated Pharmacy. 
 
Experimental or Investigational Services means medical, surgical, diagnostic, psychiatric, mental health, substance-
related and addictive disorders or other health care services, technologies, supplies, treatments, procedures, drug 
therapies, medications, or devices that, at the time the Company makes a determination regarding coverage in a particular 
case, are determined to be any of the following: 
• 
Not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be lawfully marketed for the proposed use and not 
identified as appropriate for proposed use in any of the following: 
▪ 
AHFS Drug Information (AHFS DI) under therapeutic uses section. 
▪ 
Elsevier Gold Standard’s Clinical Pharmacology under the indications section. 
▪ 
DRUGDEX System by Micromedex under the therapeutic uses section and has a strength recommendation rating 
of class I, class IIa, or class IIb. 
▪ 
National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) drugs and biologics compendium category of evidence 1, 2A, 
or 2B. 
• 
Subject to review and approval by any institutional review board for the proposed use. (Devices which are FDA 
approved under the Humanitarian Use Device exemption are not considered to be Experimental or Investigational.) 
• 
The subject of an ongoing clinical trial that meets the definition of a Phase 1, 2 or 3 clinical trial set forth in the FDA 
regulations, regardless of whether the trial is actually subject to FDA oversight. 
• 
Only obtainable, with regard to outcomes for the given indication, within research settings. 
 
Exceptions: 
• 
Clinical trials for which benefits are specifically provided for in the Policy. 
• 
The Company may, as it determines, consider an otherwise Experimental or Investigational Service to be a Covered 
Medical Expense for that Injury or Sickness if: 
▪ 
The Insured is not a participant in a qualifying clinical trial as provided for in the Policy. 
▪ 
The Insured has a Sickness or Injury that is likely to cause death within one year of the request for treatment. 
• 
Prior to such a consideration, the Company must first establish that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that, even 
though unproven, the service has significant potential as an effective treatment for that Sickness or Injury. 
 
Generic means a Prescription Drug Product: (1) that is Chemically Equivalent to a Brand-name drug; or (2) that the 
Company identifies as a Generic product based on available data resources. This includes data sources such as Medi-
Span that classify drugs as either brand or generic based on a number of factors. Not all products identified as a "generic" 
by the manufacturer, pharmacy or Insured’s Physician will be classified as a Generic by the Company. 
 
Maintenance Medication means a Prescription Drug Product expected to be used for six months or more to treat or prevent 
a chronic condition. The Insured may find out if a Prescription Drug Product is a Maintenance Medication at 
www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Network Pharmacy means a pharmacy that has: 
• 
Entered into an agreement with the Company or an organization contracting on the Company’s behalf to provide 
Prescription Drug Products to Insured Persons. 
• 
Agreed to accept specified reimbursement rates for dispensing Prescription Drug Products. 
• 
Been designated by the Company as a Network Pharmacy.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 72 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
6 
 
 
New Prescription Drug Product means a Prescription Drug Product or new dosage form of a previously approved 
Prescription Drug Product, for the period of time starting on the date the Prescription Drug Product or new dosage form is 
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and ending on the earlier of the following dates: 
• 
The date it is placed on a tier by the Company’s PDL Management Committee. 
• 
December 31st of the following calendar year. 
 
Non-Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy means a specialty Network Pharmacy that the Company identifies as a non-
preferred pharmacy within the network. 
 
Out-of-Network Reimbursement Rate means the amount the Company will pay to reimburse an Insured for a Prescription 
Drug Product that is dispensed at an out-of-Network Pharmacy. The Out-of-Network Reimbursement Rate for a particular 
Prescription Drug Product dispensed at an out-of-Network Pharmacy includes a dispensing fee and any applicable sales 
tax. 
 
PPACA means Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. 
 
PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive Care Medications means the medications that are obtained at a Network Pharmacy 
with a Prescription Order or Refill from a Physician and that are payable at 100% of the Prescription Drug Charge (without 
application of any Copayment, Coinsurance, or Deductible) as required by applicable law under any of the following: 
• 
Evidence-based items or services that have in effect a rating of “A” or “B” in the current recommendations of the 
United States Preventive Services Task Force. 
• 
Certain immunizations that have in effect a recommendation from the Advisory Committee on Immunization 
Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
• 
With respect to infants, children and adolescents, evidence-informed preventive care and screenings provided for 
in the comprehensive guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration. 
• 
With respect to women, such additional preventive care and screenings as provided for in comprehensive guidelines 
supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration. 
 
The Insured may find out if a drug is a PPACA Zero Cost Share Preventive Care Medication as well as information on 
access to coverage of Medically Necessary alternatives at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or by calling Customer Service at 1-855-
828-7716. 
 
Preferred 90 Day Retail Network Pharmacy means a retail pharmacy that the Company identifies as a preferred pharmacy 
within the network for Maintenance Medication. 
 
Preferred Specialty Network Pharmacy means a specialty Network Pharmacy that the Company identifies as a preferred 
pharmacy within the network. 
 
Prescription Drug Charge means the rate the Company has agreed to pay the Network Pharmacies for a Prescription 
Drug Product dispensed at a Network Pharmacy. The rate includes a dispensing fee and any applicable sales tax. 
 
Prescription Drug List means a list that places into tiers medications or products that have been approved by the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration. This list is subject to the Company’s review and change from time to time. The Insured may 
find out which tier a particular Prescription Drug Product has been placed at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or call Customer Service 
at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Prescription Drug List (PDL) Management Committee means the committee that the Company designates for placing 
Prescription Drugs into specific tiers. 
 
Prescription Drug Product means a medication or product that has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration and that can, under federal or state law, be dispensed only according to a Prescription Order or Refill. A 
Prescription Drug Product includes a medication that is generally appropriate for self-administration or administration by a 
non-skilled caregiver. For the purpose of the benefits under the Policy, this definition includes: 
• 
Inhalers (with spacers). 
• 
Insulin. 
• 
Certain vaccines/immunizations administered in a Network Pharmacy. 
• 
Certain injectable medications administered at a Network Pharmacy. 
• 
The following diabetic supplies: 
▪ 
standard insulin syringes with needles; 
▪ 
blood-testing strips - glucose;

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 73 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
7 
 
▪ 
urine-testing strips - glucose; 
▪ 
ketone-testing strips and tablets; 
▪ 
lancets and lancet devices; and 
▪ 
glucose meters, including continuous glucose monitors. 
 
Prescription Order or Refill means the directive to dispense a Prescription Drug Product issued by a Physician whose 
scope of practice permits issuing such a directive. 
 
Specialty Prescription Drug Product means Prescription Drug Products that are generally high cost, self-administered 
biotechnology drugs used to treat patients with certain illnesses. Insured Persons may access a complete list of Specialty 
Prescription Drug Products at www.uhcsr.com/ASU or call Customer Service at 1-855-828-7716. 
 
Therapeutically Equivalent means when Prescription Drugs Products have essentially the same efficacy and adverse 
effect profile. 
 
Unproven Service(s) means services, including medications and devices, regardless of U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) approval, that are determined not to be effective for the treatment of the medical or behavioral health condition or not 
determined to have a beneficial effect on the health outcomes due to insufficient and inadequate clinical evidence from well-
designed randomized controlled trials or observational studies in the prevailing published peer-reviewed medical literature. 
• 
Well-designed systematic reviews (with or without meta-analyses) of multiple well-designed randomized controlled 
trials. 
• 
Individual well-designed randomized controlled trials. 
• 
Well-designed observational studies with one or more concurrent comparison group(s) including cohort studies, case-
control studies, cross-sectional studies, and systematic reviews (with or without meta-analyses) of such studies. 
 
The Company has a process by which it compiles and reviews clinical evidence with respect to certain health services. 
From time to time, the Company issues medical and drug policies that describe the clinical evidence available with respect 
to specific health care services. These medical and drug policies are subject to change without prior notice. The Insured 
can view these policies at liveandworkwell.com. 
 
If the Insured has a life-threatening Injury or Sickness (one that is likely to cause death within one year of the request for 
treatment) the Company may, as it determines, consider an otherwise Unproven Service to be a Covered Medical Expense 
for that Injury or Sickness. Prior to such a consideration, the Company must first establish that there is sufficient evidence 
to conclude that, even though unproven, the service has significant potential as an effective treatment for that Sickness or 
Injury. 
 
Usual and Customary Charge means the usual fee that a pharmacy charges individuals for a Prescription Drug Product 
without reference to reimbursement to the pharmacy by third parties. This fee includes a dispensing fee and any applicable 
sales tax. 
 
Additional Exclusions 
 
In addition to the Exclusions and Limitations shown in the Certificate of Coverage, the following Exclusions apply: 
1. 
Coverage for Prescription Drug Products for the amount dispensed (days' supply or quantity limit) which exceeds 
the supply limit. 
2. 
Coverage for Prescription Drug Products for the amount dispensed (days’ supply or quantity limit) which is less than 
the minimum supply limit. 
3. 
Prescription Drug Products dispensed outside the United States, except as required for a Medical Emergency. 
4. 
Drugs which are prescribed, dispensed or intended for use during an Inpatient stay. 
5. 
Experimental or Investigational Services or Unproven Services and medications; medications used for experimental 
indications for certain diseases and/or dosage regimens determined by the Company to be experimental, 
investigational or unproven. 
6. 
Prescription Drug Products furnished by the local, state or federal government. Any Prescription Drug Product to 
the extent payment or benefits are provided or available from the local, state or federal government (for example, 
Medicare) whether or not payment or benefits are received, except as otherwise provided by law. 
7. 
Prescription Drug products for any condition, Injury, Sickness or Mental Illness arising out of, or in the course of, 
employment for which benefits are available under any workers’ compensation law or other similar laws, whether 
or not a claim for such benefits is made or payment or benefits are received. 
8. 
A pharmaceutical product for which benefits are provided in the Certificate of Coverage. 
9. 
General vitamins, except the following, which require a Prescription Order or Refill: 
• 
Prenatal vitamins. 
• 
Vitamins with fluoride.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 74 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
8 
 
• 
Single entity vitamins. 
10. 
Certain unit dose packaging or repackagers of Prescription Drug Products. 
11. 
Medications used for cosmetic or convenience purposes. 
12. 
Prescription Drug Products, including New Prescription Drug Products or new dosage forms, that the Company 
determines do not meet the definition of a Covered Medical Expense. 
13. 
Certain New Prescription Drug Products and/or new dosage forms until the date they are reviewed and placed on 
a tier by the Company’s PDL Management Committee. 
14. 
Compounded drugs that do not contain at least one ingredient that has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and requires a Prescription Order or Refill. Compounded drugs that contain a non-FDA 
approved bulk chemical. Compounded drugs that are available as a similar commercially available Prescription 
Drug Product. (Compounded drugs that contain at least one ingredient that requires a Prescription Order or Refill 
are placed on Tier-3.) 
15. 
Drugs available over-the-counter that do not require a Prescription Order or Refill by federal or state law before 
being dispensed, unless the Company has designated the over-the-counter medication as eligible for coverage as 
if it were a Prescription Drug Product and it is obtained with a Prescription Order or Refill from a Physician. 
Prescription Drug Products that are available in over-the-counter form or made up of components that are available 
in over-the-counter form or equivalent. Certain Prescription Drug Products that the Company has determined are 
Therapeutically Equivalent to an over-the-counter drug or supplement. Such determinations may be made up to 
six times during a calendar year. The Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug 
Product that was previously excluded under this provision. 
16. 
Any product for which the primary use is a source of nutrition, nutritional supplements, or dietary management of 
disease, and prescription medical food products, even when used for the treatment of Sickness or Injury, except as 
required by state mandate. 
17. 
A Prescription Drug Product that contains (an) active ingredient(s) available in and Therapeutically Equivalent to 
another covered Prescription Drug Product. Such determinations may be made up to six times during a calendar 
year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was previously 
excluded under this provision. 
18. 
A Prescription Drug Product that contains (an) active ingredient(s) which is (are) a modified version of and 
Therapeutically Equivalent to another covered Prescription Drug Product. Such determinations may be made up to 
six times during a calendar year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription 
Drug that was previously excluded under this provision. 
19. 
Certain Prescription Drug Products for which there are Therapeutically Equivalent alternatives available, unless 
otherwise required by law or approved by the Company. Such determinations may be made up to six times during 
a calendar year, and the Company may decide at any time to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was 
previously excluded under this provision. 
20. 
A Prescription Drug Product with either: 
• 
An approved biosimilar. 
• 
A biosimilar and Therapeutically Equivalent to another covered Prescription Drug Product. 
For the purpose of this exclusion a “biosimilar” is a biological Prescription Drug Product approved based on both of 
the following: 
• 
It is highly similar to a reference product (a biological Prescription Drug Product). 
• 
It has no clinically meaningful differences in terms of safety and effectiveness from the reference product. 
Such determinations may be made up to six times during a calendar year. The Company may decide at any time 
to reinstate benefits for a Prescription Drug that was previously excluded under this provision. 
21. 
Prescription Drug Products as a replacement for a previously dispensed Prescription Drug Product that was lost, 
stolen, broken or destroyed. 
22. 
Durable medical equipment, including certain insulin pumps and related supplies for the management and treatment 
of diabetes, for which benefits are provided in the Policy. Prescribed and non-prescribed outpatient supplies. This 
does not apply to diabetic supplies and inhaler spacers specifically stated as covered. 
23. 
Diagnostic kits and products, including associated services. 
24. 
Publicly available software applications and/or monitors that may be available with or without a Prescription Order 
or Refill. 
25. 
Certain Prescription Drug Products that are FDA approved as a package with a device or application, including 
smart package sensors and/or embedded drug sensors. This exclusion does not apply to a device or application 
that assists the Insured Person with the administration of a Prescription Drug Product. 
26. 
A Prescription Drug Product that contains marijuana, including medical marijuana.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 75 =====

COL-17 (PY25) END RX 
9 
 
Right to Request an Exclusion Exception 
 
When a Prescription Drug Product is excluded from coverage, the Insured Person or the Insured’s representative may 
request an exception to gain access to the excluded Prescription Drug Product. To make a request, contact the Company 
in writing or call 1-866-652-9185. The Company will notify the Insured Person of the Company’s determination within 72 
hours. 
 
Please note, if the request for an exception is approved, the Insured may be responsible for paying the applicable 
Copayment and/or Coinsurance based on the Prescription Drug Product tier placement, or at the highest tier as described 
in the Schedule of Benefits. 
 
Urgent Requests 
 
If the Insured Person’s request requires immediate action and a delay could significantly increase the risk to the Insured 
Person’s health, or the ability to regain maximum function, call the Company as soon as possible. The Company will provide 
a written or electronic determination within 24 hours. 
 
External Review 
 
If the Insured Person is not satisfied with the Company’s determination of the exclusion exception request, the Insured 
Person may be entitled to request an external review. The Insured Person or the Insured Person’s representative may 
request an external review by sending a written request to the Company at the address set out in the determination letter 
or by calling 1-866-652-9185. The Independent Review Organization (IRO) will notify the Insured Person of the 
determination within 72 hours. 
 
Expedited External Review 
 
If the Insured Person is not satisfied with the Company’s determination of the exclusion exception request and it involves 
an urgent situation, the Insured Person or the Insured’s representative may request an expedited external review by calling 
1-866-652-9185 or by sending a written request to the address set out in the determination letter. The IRO will notify the 
Insured Person of the determination within 24 hours.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 76 =====

COL-17 (PY21) END RME 
1 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
POLICY ENDORSEMENT 
 
This endorsement takes effect and expires concurrently with the Policy to which it is attached and is subject to all 
of the terms and conditions of the Policy not inconsistent therewith. 
 
 
 
 
 
President 
 
It is hereby understood and agreed that the Policy to which this endorsement is attached is amended as follows: 
 
 
An Insured Person under this insurance plan is eligible for Assistance and Evacuation Benefits in addition to the underlying 
plan coverage. The requirements to receive these benefits are as follows: 
 
International Students are eligible to receive Assistance and Evacuation Benefits worldwide, except in their Home Country. 
 
Domestic Students are eligible for Assistance and Evacuation Benefits when 100 miles or more away from their campus 
address or 100 miles or more away from their permanent home address or while participating in a study abroad program. 
 
 
Assistance and Evacuation Benefits 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
The following definitions apply to the Assistance and Evacuation Benefits described further below. 
 
“Emergency Medical Event” means an event wherein an Insured Person’s medical condition and situation are such that, in 
the opinion of the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor and the Insured Person’s treating physician, the Insured Person 
requires urgent medical attention without which there would be a significant risk of death, or serious impairment and 
adequate medical treatment is not available at the Insured Person’s initial medical facility. 
 
“Home Country” means, with respect to an Insured Person, the country or territory as shown on the Insured Person’s 
passport or the country or territory of which the Insured Person is a permanent resident. 
 
“Host Country” means, with respect to an Insured Person, the country or territory the Insured Person is visiting or in which 
the Insured Person is living, which is not the Insured Person’s Home Country. 
 
“Physician Advisors” mean physicians retained by the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor for provision of consultative 
and advisory services to the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor, including the review and analysis of the medical care 
received by Insured Persons. 
 
An Insured Person must notify the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor to obtain benefits for Medical Evacuation and 
Repatriation. If the Insured Person doesn’t notify the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor, the Insured Person will be 
responsible for paying all charges and no benefits will be paid. 
 
MEDICAL EVACUATION AND REPATRIATION BENEFITS 
 
Emergency Medical Evacuation: If an Insured Person suffers a Sickness or Injury, experiences an Emergency Medical 
Event and adequate medical facilities are not available locally in the opinion of the Medical Director of the Company’s 
affiliate or authorized vendor, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will provide an emergency medical evacuation 
(under medical supervision if necessary) to the nearest facility capable of providing adequate care by whatever means is 
necessary. The Company will pay costs for arranging and providing for transportation and related medical services

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 77 =====

COL-17 (PY21) END RME 
2 
(including the cost of a medical escort if necessary) and medical supplies necessarily incurred in connection with the 
emergency medical evacuation. 
 
Dispatch of Doctors/Specialists: If an Insured Person experiences an Emergency Medical Event and the Company’s 
affiliate or authorized vendor determines that an Insured Person cannot be adequately assessed by telephone for possible 
medical evacuation from the initial medical facility or that the Insured Person cannot be moved and local treatment is 
unavailable, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will arrange to send an appropriate medical practitioner to the 
Insured Person’s location when it deems it appropriate for medical management of a case. The Company will pay costs for 
transportation and expenses associated with dispatching a medical practitioner to an Insured Person’s location, not including 
the costs of the medical practitioner’s service. 
 
Medical Repatriation: After an Insured Person receives initial treatment and stabilization for a Sickness or Injury, if the 
attending physician and the Medical Director of the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor determine that it is medically 
necessary, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will transport an Insured Person back to the Insured Person's 
permanent place of residence for further medical treatment or to recover. The Company will pay costs for arranging and 
providing for transportation and related medical services (including the cost of a medical escort if necessary) and medical 
supplies necessarily incurred in connection with the repatriation. 
 
Transportation after Stabilization: If Medical Repatriation is not required following stabilization of the Insured Person’s 
condition and discharge from the hospital, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will coordinate transportation to the 
Insured Person’s point of origin, Home Country, or Host Country. The Company will pay costs for economy transportation 
(or upgraded transportation to match an Insured Person’s originally booked travel arrangements) to the Insured Person’s 
original point of origin, Home Country or Host Country. 
 
Transportation to Join a Hospitalized Insured Person: If an Insured Person who is travelling alone is or will be 
hospitalized for more than three (3) days due to a Sickness or Injury, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will 
coordinate round-trip airfare for a person of the Insured Person’s choice to join the Insured Person. The Company will pay 
costs for economy class round-trip airfare for a person to join the Insured Person. 
 
Return of Minor Children: If an Insured Person’s minor child(ren) age 18 or under are present but left unattended as a 
result of the Insured Person’s Injury or Sickness, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will coordinate airfare to send 
them back to the Insured Person’s Home Country. The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will also arrange for the 
services, transportation expenses, and accommodations of a non-medical escort, if required as determined by the 
Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor. The Company will pay costs for economy class one-way airfare for the minor 
children (or upgraded transportation to match the Insured Person’s originally booked travel arrangement) and, if required, 
the cost of the services, transportation expenses, and accommodations of a non-medical escort to accompany the minor 
children back to the Insured Person’s Home Country. 
 
Repatriation of Mortal Remains: In the event of an Insured Person’s death, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor 
will assist in obtaining the necessary clearances for the Insured Person’s cremation or the return of the Insured Person’s 
mortal remains. The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will coordinate the preparation and transportation of the 
Insured Person’s mortal remains to the Insured Person’s Home Country or place of primary residence, as it obtains the 
number of certified death certificates required by the Host Country and Home Country to release and receive the remains. 
The Company will pay costs for the certified death certificates required by the Home Country or Host Country to release the 
remains and expenses of the preparation and transportation of the Insured Person’s mortal remains to the Insured Person’s 
Home Country or place of primary residence. 
 
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS 
 
Assistance and Evacuation Benefits shall only be provided to an Insured Person after the Company’s affiliate or authorized 
vendor receives the request (in writing or via phone) from the Insured Person or an authorized representative of the Insured 
Person of the need for the requested Assistance and Evacuation Benefits. In all cases, the requested Assistance and 
Evacuation Benefits services and payments must be arranged, authorized, verified and approved in advance by the 
Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor. 
 
With respect to any evacuation requested by an Insured Person, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor reserves the 
right to determine, at its sole discretion, the need for and the feasibility of an evacuation and the means, method, timing, 
and destination of such evacuation, and may consult with relevant third-parties, including as applicable, Physician Advisors 
and treating physicians as needed to make its determination. 
 
In the event an Insured Person is incapacitated or deceased, his/her designated or legal representative shall have the right 
to act for and on behalf of the Insured Person.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 78 =====

COL-17 (PY21) END RME 
3 
 
The following Exclusions and Limitations apply to the Assistance and Evacuation Benefits. 
 
In no event shall the Company be responsible for providing Assistance and Evacuation Benefits to an Insured Person in a 
situation arising from or in connection with any of the following: 
 
1. Travel costs that were neither arranged nor approved in advance by the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor. 
2. Taking part in military or police service operations. 
3. Insured Person’s failure to properly procure or maintain immigration, work, residence or similar type visas, permits 
or documents. 
4. The actual or threatened use or release of any nuclear, chemical or biological weapon or device, or exposure to 
nuclear reaction or radiation, regardless of contributory cause. 
5. Any evacuation or repatriation that requires an Insured Person to be transported in a biohazard-isolation unit. 
6. Medical Evacuations from a marine vessel, ship, or watercraft of any kind. 
7. Medical Evacuations directly or indirectly related to a natural disaster. 
8. Subsequent Medical Evacuations for the same or related Sickness, Injury or Emergency Medical Event regardless 
of location. 
 
 
Additional Assistance Services 
 
The following assistance services will be available to an Insured Person in addition to the Assistance and Evacuation 
Benefits. 
 
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES 
 
Worldwide Medical and Dental Referrals: Upon an Insured Person’s request, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor 
will provide referrals to physicians, hospitals, dentists, and dental clinics in the area the Insured Person is traveling in order 
to assist the Insured Person in locating appropriate treatment and quality care. 
 
Monitoring of Treatment: As and to the extent permissible, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will continually 
monitor the Insured Person’s medical condition. Third-party medical providers may offer consultative and advisory services 
to the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor in relation to the Insured Person’s medical condition, including review and 
analysis of the quality of medical care received by the Insured Person. 
 
Facilitation of Hospital Admittance Payments: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will issue a financial 
guarantee (or wire funds) on behalf of Company up to five thousand dollars (US$5,000) to facilitate admittance to a foreign 
(non-US) medical facility. 
 
Relay of Insurance and Medical Information: Upon an Insured Person’s request and authorization, the Company’s 
affiliate or authorized vendor will relay the Insured Person’s insurance benefit information and/or medical records and 
information to a health care provider or treating physician, as appropriate and permissible, to help prevent delays or denials 
of medical care. The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will also assist with hospital admission and discharge 
planning. 
 
Medication and Vaccine Transfers: In the event a medication or vaccine is not available locally, or a prescription 
medication is lost or stolen, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will coordinate the transfer of the medication or 
vaccine to Insured Persons upon the prescribing physician’s authorization, if it is legally permissible. 
 
Updates to Family, Employer, and Home Physician: Upon an Insured Person’s approval, the Company’s affiliate or 
authorized vendor will provide periodic case updates to appropriate individuals designated by the Insured Person in order 
to keep them informed. 
 
Hotel Arrangements: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will assist Insured Persons with the arrangement of 
hotel stays and room requirements before or after hospitalization or for ongoing care. 
 
Replacement of Corrective Lenses and Medical Devices: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will assist with 
the replacement of corrective lenses or medical devices if they are lost, stolen, or broken during travel.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 79 =====

COL-17 (PY21) END RME 
4 
WORLDWIDE DESTINATION INTELLIGENCE 
 
Destination Profiles: When preparing for travel, an Insured Person can contact the Company’s affiliate or authorized 
vendor to have a pre-trip destination report sent to the Insured Person. This report draws upon an intelligence database of 
over 280 cities covering subject such as health and security risks, immunizations, vaccinations, local hospitals, crime, 
emergency phone numbers, culture, weather, transportation information, entry and exit requirements, and currency. The 
global medical and security database of over 170 countries and 280 cities is continuously updated and includes intelligence 
from thousands of worldwide sources. 
 
TRAVEL ASSISTANCE SERVICES 
 
Replacement of Lost or Stolen Travel Documents: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will assist the Insured 
Person in taking the necessary steps to replace passports, tickets, and other important travel documents. 
 
Emergency Travel Arrangements: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will make new reservations for airlines, 
hotels, and other travel services for an Insured Person in the event of a Sickness or Injury, to the extent that the Insured 
Person is entitled to receive Assistance and Evacuation Benefits. 
 
Transfer of Funds: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will provide the Insured Person with an emergency cash 
advance subject to the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor first securing funds from the Insured Person (via a credit 
card) or his/her family. 
 
Legal Referrals: Should an Insured Person require legal assistance, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will direct 
the Insured Person to a duly licensed attorney in or around the area where the Insured Person is located. 
 
Language Services: The Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will provide immediate interpretation assistance to an 
Insured Person in a variety of languages in an emergency situation. If a requested interpretation is not available or the 
requested assistance is related to a non-emergency situation, the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor will provide the 
Insured Person with referrals to interpreter services. Written translations and other custom requests, including an on-site 
interpreter, will be subject to an additional fee. 
 
Message Transmittals: Insured Persons may send and receive emergency messages toll-free, 24-hours a day, through 
the Company’s affiliate or authorized vendor. 
 
HOW TO ACCESS ASSISTANCE AND EVACUATION SERVICES 
 
Assistance and Evacuation Services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. 
 
To access services, please refer to the phone number on the back of the Insured Person’s ID Card or access My Account 
at www.uhcsr.com/MyAccount and select My Benefits/Additional Benefits/UHC Global Emergency Services. 
 
When calling the Emergency Response Center, the caller should be prepared to provide the following information: 
 
• 
Caller’s name, telephone and (if possible) fax number, and relationship to the Insured Person. 
• 
Insured Person’s name, age, sex, and ID Number as listed on the Insured Person’s Medical ID card. 
• 
Description of the Insured Person’s condition. 
• 
Name, location, and telephone number of hospital, if applicable. 
• 
Name and telephone number of the attending physician. 
• 
Information on where the physician can be immediately reached. 
 
If the condition is a medical emergency, the Insured Person should go immediately to the nearest physician or hospital 
without delay and then contact the 24-hour Emergency Response Center. 
 
All medical expenses related to hospitalization and treatment costs incurred should be submitted to the Company for 
consideration at the address located in the “How to File a Claim for Injury and Sickness Benefits” section of the Certificate 
of Coverage and are subject to all Policy benefits, provisions, limitations, and exclusions.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 80 =====

1
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AZ Health Care Insurer Appeals Process Information Packet 
 
 UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company 
 
 
CAREFULLY READ THE INFORMATION IN THIS PACKET AND KEEP IT FOR FUTURE 
REFERENCE. IT HAS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT HOW TO APPEAL ADVERSE 
DETERMINATIONS THAT WE MAKE ABOUT YOUR HEALTH CARE. 
 
 
 
 
 
We must send you a copy of this information packet when you first receive your policy, at the request of you or 
your treating provider, and provide access to a copy of this health care appeals information packet on our website 
www.uhcsr.com. When your insurance coverage is renewed, we will send you a reminder that you can request 
another copy of this packet. Just call our Customer/Member Services number on the CONTACT US page in this 
packet to request an additional copy. 
 
 
WHICH DISPUTES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR ARIZONA’S HEALTH CARE APPEALS 
PROCESS? 
 
You can file an appeal when you are notified by us of an Adverse Determination, which means that a requested 
service or a claim for service or a denial, reduction, or termination of service, in whole or in part, is: 
 
• Not medically necessary or appropriate, including the health care setting, level of care or effectiveness of 
a treatment or service. 
• Experimental or investigational. 
• Not a covered service. 
 
An Adverse Determination also includes a cancellation of the policy back to the effective date due to a reason 
other than failure to pay premiums, known as a rescission of coverage. 
 
Examples of disputes that are not eligible for Arizona’s Health Care Appeals process include: 
 
• You disagree with our determination as to the amount we paid for a service or treatment. 
• You disagree with how we are coordinating benefits when you have health insurance with more than one 
insurer. 
• You disagree with the amount of your cost-share (co-payments and co-insurance) or how we have applied 
your claims or services to your plan deductible. 
 
IMPORTANT: THE STANDARD APPEAL PROCESS FOR ALL PLANS MUST INCLUDE AN INITIAL 
APPEAL LEVEL OF REVIEW. FOR SOME PLANS WE MAY ELECT TO OFFER A SECOND INTERNAL 
LEVEL OF REVIEW CALLED A VOLUNTARY INTERNAL APPEAL. THE VOLUNTARY INTERNAL 
APPEAL, AND ANY REFERENCE TO THE VOLUNTARY INTERNAL APPEAL IN THIS PACKET, 
DOES NOT APPLY TO YOUR PLAN.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 81 =====

2
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you disagree with a decision, we made that is not appealable, contact us at the number on the CONTACT US 
page in this packet. 
 
 
WHO CAN FILE A HEALTH CARE APPEAL OR REPRESENT A MEMBER? 
 
You or your treating provider on your behalf can file an appeal. The following authorized representatives can also 
file an appeal on your behalf: 
 
• A parent or legal guardian. 
• A surrogate who is authorized to make health care decisions for the member through a power of attorney, 
a court order or the provisions of A.R.S. § 36-3231. 
• An agent who is an adult and who has the authority to make health care treatment decisions for the member 
pursuant to a health care power of attorney. 
 
If you are the member and want to file a health care appeal, you can work with your treating provider to help you 
with information you need to support your appeal. In Arizona, the majority of health care appeals are filed by 
treating providers. 
 
 
TOOLS FOR FILING A HEALTH CARE APPEAL 
 
In this packet you will find forms you can use for your appeal. The Arizona Department of Insurance and Financial 
Institutions (“AZ DIFI”) developed these forms to help consumers file a health care appeal. You are not required 
to use them, and we cannot reject your appeal if you do not use them. To file an appeal, you can call us or send us 
a request in writing. If you need help in filing an appeal, or you have questions about the appeals process, contact 
us at the phone number on your ID card or listed on the CONTACT US page in this packet. 
 
If you have general questions about health care appeals, you can contact the AZ DIFI’s Consumer Services Section 
at (602) 364-2499 or visit the AZ DIFI website at www.difi.az.gov. 
 
 
DESCRIPTION OF THE APPEALS PROCESS 
 
There are two types of appeal time frames: an expedited appeal for urgent matters and a standard appeal. The 
appeals operate in a similar fashion, except that expedited appeals are processed much faster because of the 
patient’s condition. 
 
Appeals are categorized as either Medical Necessity or Coverage. The designation will affect how the case is 
handled by us and by the AZ DIFI, as well as the rights you have once the health care appeals process has been 
completed. 
 
STANDARD VS EXPEDITED TIME FRAMES: IS IT URGENT? 
 
Generally, a standard appeal for a service not yet provided will be completed within 30 days. 
 
If your appeal is urgent, your treating physician must certify and provide supporting documentation to us that the 
time frame for a standard appeal review would cause a significant negative change in your condition. There is a

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 82 =====

3
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provider certification form at the end of this packet, but it is not required to be used. Your provider could also send 
a written request or create a form with similar information. Your treating provider must send the certification and 
documentation to us using the information on the CONTACT US page in this packet. 
 
Adverse Determinations Eligible for Expedited Appeal Process 
 
The following is a non-exhaustive list of Adverse Determinations that may be expedited with certification from 
your provider: 
 
• A denial of a health care service as experimental or investigational. 
• A denial of a health care service for which a member has received emergency services but has not been 
discharged. 
• A denial, reduction, or termination of coverage for an admission. 
• Availability of care. 
• A continued stay for a course of treatment before the end of the period of time or number of treatments 
recommended by the treating provider. 
• A prior authorization denial. 
 
If you already received the service, or it is an issue of policy rescission, it cannot be expedited. 
 
 
GENERAL APPEALS PROCESS INFORMATION 
 
• Your plan may or may not offer a second internal level of review called the Voluntary Internal Appeal. 
The first page of this packet indicates whether the Voluntary Internal Appeal applies to your plan. 
 
• You have two years from the date of an Adverse Determination to begin the health care appeals process. 
 
• Requests for all health care appeal levels are to be sent directly to us using the information on the 
CONTACT US page in this packet. 
 
• An appeal must first go through the Initial Appeal level and, if applicable, the Voluntary Internal Appeal 
level, or the internal level(s) of review must be waived or deemed exhausted, before seeking an External 
Independent Review, except that you can simultaneously initiate an Expedited External Independent 
Review at any internal level of review. 
 
• The Initial Appeal and Voluntary Internal Appeal, if applicable, and the Expedited Medical Review and 
Expedited Appeal levels of review are completed by us. For the External Independent Review and 
Expedited External Independent Review levels, we send the appeal to the AZ DIFI. 
 
• At any time, we may waive the internal levels of review and move an appeal to the External Independent 
Review level. 
 
• There is no minimum dollar amount for the value of a claim or service for it to be eligible for the health 
care appeals process. 
 
• There is no fee to you or your provider for any level of appeal.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 83 =====

4
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• It is important to pay attention to deadlines at each level of review. 
 
• For individual plans, and for group plans that do not elect to offer a Voluntary Internal Appeal level, there 
are two standard appeal levels: 
1. Initial Appeal. 
2. External Independent Review. 
 
• For group and grandfathered individual plans that elect to offer a Voluntary Internal Appeal level, there 
are three standard appeal levels: 
1. Initial Appeal. 
2. Voluntary Internal Appeal. 
3. External Independent Review. 
 
• For all plans, there are three expedited appeal levels: 
1. Expedited Medical Review. 
2. Expedited Appeal. 
3. Expedited External Independent Review. 
 
• If the External Independent Review involves medical necessity, the AZ DIFI selects an Independent 
Review Organization (“IRO”) that is completely independent of us to make the determination. The IRO 
reviewer will be a provider that typically manages the condition that is the subject of the appeal. 
 
• If the appeal involves whether a treatment or service is covered in your policy, the AZ DIFI is the external 
reviewer.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 84 =====

5
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expedited Medical Review 
 
You may obtain Expedited Medical Review of an Adverse Determination for a service that has not already 
been provided if your treating provider certifies in writing and provides supporting documentation that 
the time for a standard appeal is likely to cause a significant negative change in your medical condition. 
At the end of this packet is a form that your treating provider may use, but that form is not required. Your 
provider could also provide a written request or create a form with similar information. Your treating 
provider must send the certification and documentation to us using the information on the CONTACT US 
page in this packet. 
We have 72 hours after we receive the request to decide whether we should change our determination and 
authorize your requested service. Within this time frame, we must call and tell you and your treating 
provider about our determination. We must also send you a written determination. 
If we overturn our determination, we will authorize the service and the appeal is over. 
If we deny your appeal, our determination letter will explain the reasons for our determination and the 
information on which we based our determination. Our determination letter will also include instructions 
for the next steps in the appeal process. 
We may decide at any time to waive the Expedited Medical Review and Expedited Appeal levels and 
send your appeal to the AZ DIFI for Expedited External Independent Review. 
Expedited Appeal 
If we deny your Expedited Medical Review, you may request an Expedited Appeal. After you receive our 
Expedited Medical Review determination, your treating provider must immediately send us a written 
appeal request using the information in the CONTACT US page in this packet. To help your appeal, your 
provider should also send us any additional information that the provider has not already sent to show 
why you need the requested service. 
We have three business days after we receive the request to decide whether we should change our 
determination and authorize your requested service. Within this time frame, we must call and tell you and 
your treating provider about our determination. We must also send you a written determination. 
If we overturn our determination, we will authorize the service and the appeal is over. 
If we deny your appeal, our determination letter will explain the reasons for our determination and the 
information on which we based our determination. Our determination letter will also include instructions 
for the next steps in the appeal process. 
We may decide at any time to waive the Expedited Appeal level and send your appeal to the AZ DIFI for 
Expedited External Independent Review. 
EXPEDITED APPEAL PROCESS FOR URGENTLY NEEDED SERVICES 
NOT YET PROVIDED

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 85 =====

6
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expedited External Independent Review 
Unless we waive the Expedited Medical Review or Expedited Appeal levels of review and send your 
appeal to the AZ DIFI for Expedited External Independent Review, you may request an Expedited 
External Independent Review after you have completed an Expedited Medical Review and an Expedited 
Appeal or simultaneously at any internal level of review. You have four months after you receive a Final 
Internal Adverse Determination to send to us your written request for Expedited External Independent 
Review. If the treatment or service is considered experimental or investigational, you can make an oral 
request if your treating physician certifies in writing that the requested service or treatment would be 
significantly less effective if not promptly initiated. Send us your request and any additional supporting 
information using the information in the CONTACT US page in this packet. 
There are two types of Expedited External Independent Review depending on the issue in your case: 
Medical Necessity or Contract Coverage. 
(A) Medical Necessity 
These are cases where we have decided not to authorize a service because we determined that the 
service you or your treating provider are asking for is not medically necessary to treat your condition. 
For medical necessity cases, the independent reviewer is a provider retained by an IRO, which is 
procured by the AZ DIFI and not connected with our company. The IRO reviewer must be a provider 
who typically manages the condition under review. Medical necessity appeals are subject to the 
following time frames: 
• Within one business day of receiving your request, we must: 
 
1. Send a written acknowledgement of the appeal request to the AZ DIFI, you, and your treating 
provider. 
 
 2. Send the AZ DIFI all of the following: 
a. The request for review. 
b. Your policy, evidence of coverage or similar document. 
c. All medical records and supporting documentation used to render our determination. 
d. A summary of the applicable issues, including a statement of our determination. 
e. The criteria used and clinical reasons for our determination. 
f. The relevant portions of our utilization review guidelines. 
g. The name and credentials of the health care provider who reviewed and upheld the denial 
at the internal levels of review. 
 
• Within two business days of receiving the appeal the AZ DIFI must send all the submitted 
information to the IRO. 
 
• Within 72 hours of receiving the appeal the IRO must make a determination and send their 
determination to the AZ DIFI. 
 
• Within one business day of receiving the IRO’s determination the AZ DIFI must send a notice of 
the determination to you, your treating provider, and us.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 86 =====

7
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The determination: If the IRO decides that we should provide the service we must authorize the 
service. If the IRO agrees with our determination to deny the service, the appeal is over and your only 
further option is to pursue a claim in Superior Court. 
 
(B) Contract Coverage 
 
These are cases where we have denied coverage because we determined that the requested service is 
not covered under your insurance policy. For contract coverage cases the AZ DIFI is the independent 
reviewer. Contract Coverage appeals are subject to the following time frames: 
 
• Within one business day of receiving your request, we must: 
 
1. Send a written acknowledgement of the request to the AZ DIFI, you, and your treating 
provider. 
 
2. Send the AZ DIFI all of the following: 
a. The request for review. 
b. Your policy, evidence of coverage or similar document. 
c. All medical records and supporting documentation used to render our determination. 
d. A summary of the applicable issues, including a statement of our determination. 
e. The criteria used and any clinical reasons for our determination. 
f. The relevant portions of our utilization review guidelines. 
 
• Within two business days of receiving this information the AZ DIFI must determine whether 
the service or claim is covered under your insurance policy and send a written notice of their 
determination to you, your treating provider, and us. 
 
Referral to an IRO for Contract Coverage Appeals: The AZ DIFI may be unable to determine issues 
of coverage. If this occurs, the AZ DIFI will forward the case to an IRO. The IRO will have 72 hours 
to make a determination and send it to the AZ DIFI. The AZ DIFI will have one business day after 
receiving the IRO’s determination to send the notice of determination to you, your treating provider, 
and us. 
 
The determination: If the AZ DIFI decides that we should provide the service or pay the claim, we must 
do so. If either you or we disagree with the AZ DIFI’s determination on a coverage issue, you or we may 
request a hearing with the Arizona Office of Administrative Hearings (“AZ OAH”) by sending a request 
to the AZ DIFI within 30 days after receiving the AZ DIFI’s determination. 
 
Initial Appeal 
 You can request an Initial Appeal of an Adverse Determination if all of the following apply: 
• You have coverage with us. 
STANDARD APPEAL PROCESS FOR NON-URGENT SERVICES AND 
DENIED CLAIMS

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 87 =====

8
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• We denied your request for a covered service or claim. 
• You request an appeal within two years after the date we make the Adverse Determination. 
• You do not qualify to have your appeal expedited. 
• You send your request to us using the information in the CONTACT US page in this packet. 
At any time, we may decide to waive internal review and send your appeal to the AZ DIFI for External 
Independent Review. 
Before we make a Final Internal Adverse Determination that relies on new or additional information 
generated by us, we must provide you with a copy of the new information along with a reasonable 
opportunity to respond within the applicable time frames for us to provide a written determination. 
Determination and Time Frames: 
• For individual plans, and for group plans or grandfathered individual plans that do not elect to 
offer a voluntary internal appeal level, we have: 
a. 30 days to make a determination for a service not yet provided. 
b. 60 days to make a determination for a service already provided. 
• For group plans and for grandfathered individual plans that elect to offer a Voluntary Internal 
appeal level, we have: 
a. 15 days to make a determination for a service not yet provided. 
b. 30 days to make a determination for a service already provided. 
We must send you and your treating provider a written determination letter within the time frames 
above. 
 
If we overturn our determination, we will authorize the service or pay the claim and the appeal is 
over. 
 
If we deny your appeal, our determination letter will explain the reasons for our determination and 
the information on which we based our determination. Our determination letter will also include 
instructions for the next steps in the appeal process, subject to the following time frames: 
• For individual plans, and for group plans that do not elect to offer a voluntary internal appeal 
level, you have 4 months to request an External Independent Review. 
• For group plans and for grandfathered individual plans that elect to offer a voluntary internal 
appeal level, you have 60 days to request a Voluntary Internal Appeal. 
 
Voluntary Internal Appeal 
 
This level of appeal applies only if you have a group plan or grandfathered individual plan, we 
elect to offer this level of appeal, and you previously completed an Initial Appeal. 
 
You or your treating provider must send to us a written request within 60 days of an Initial Appeal 
determination to tell us you want a Voluntary Internal Appeal. To help us make a determination on 
your appeal, you or your provider should also send us any additional information that you have not 
already sent to show why we should authorize the requested service or pay the claim. Send your appeal 
request and information to us using the information in the CONTACT US page in this packet.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 88 =====

9
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At any time, we may decide to waive the Voluntary Internal Appeal level and send your appeal to the 
AZ DIFI for External Independent Review. 
 
Before we make a Final Internal Adverse Determination that relies on new or additional information 
generated by us, we must provide you with a copy along with a reasonable opportunity to respond 
within the applicable time frames for us to provide a written determination. 
 
Determination and Time Frames: 
 
• We have 15 days to make a determination for a service not yet provided. 
• We have 30 days to make a determination for a service already provided. 
 
If we overturn our determination, we will authorize the service or pay the claim and the appeal is 
over. 
 
If we deny your appeal, our determination will explain the reasons for our determination and the 
information on which we based our determination. Our determination will also include instructions for 
the next steps in the appeal process. You have four months to appeal to the External Independent 
Review level. 
 
External Independent Review 
 
You may appeal to the External Independent Review level only after you have completed the internal 
level(s) of appeal. You have four months after you receive a Final Internal Adverse Determination to 
send us your written appeal request and any additional supporting information for External Independent 
Review. Send your request to us using the information in the CONTACT US page in this packet. 
 
This level of review also applies if we elect to waive the internal level(s) of review. There are two types 
of External Independent Review, depending on the issues in your case: Medical Necessity or Contract 
Coverage. 
 
(A) Medical Necessity 
 
These are cases where we have decided not to authorize a service because we determined that the 
service you or your treating provider are asking for is not medically necessary to treat your condition. 
For medical necessity cases, the independent reviewer is a provider retained by an IRO, which is 
procured by the AZ DIFI and not connected with our company. The IRO reviewer must be a provider 
who typically manages the condition under review. Medical necessity appeals are subject to the 
following time frames: 
 
• Within five business days of receiving your request, we must: 
 
1. Mail a written acknowledgement of your request to the AZ DIFI, you, and your treating 
provider. This acknowledgment must include notice that you have five business days after 
receiving the notice to submit any additional written evidence to the AZ DIFI for 
consideration by the external reviewer. The AZ DIFI will forward it to the IRO. If you 
provide additional information after five business days, the IRO may or may not consider it.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 89 =====

10
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Send the AZ DIFI all of the following: 
a. The request for review. 
b. Your policy, evidence of coverage or similar document. 
c. All medical records and supporting documentation used to render our determination(s). 
d. A summary of the applicable issues including a statement of our determination. 
e. The criteria used and clinical reasons for our determination. 
f. The relevant portions of our utilization review guidelines. 
g. The name and credentials of the health care provider who reviewed and upheld the 
determination(s) at the initial appeal and, if applicable, the voluntary internal appeal 
level. 
 
• 
Within five days of receiving the appeal the AZ DIFI must send all the submitted information 
to an IRO. 
 
• 
Within 21 days of receiving the appeal the IRO must make a written determination and send 
the determination to the AZ DIFI. 
 
• 
Within five business days of receiving the IRO’s determination the AZ DIFI must send a 
written notice of the determination to you, your treating provider, and us. 
 
The determination: If the IRO decides that we should provide the service or pay the claim, we must 
authorize the service or pay the claim. If the IRO agrees with our determination to deny the service or 
payment, the appeal is over, and your only further option is to pursue a claim in Superior Court. 
 
(B) Contract Coverage 
 
These are cases where we have denied coverage because we determined that the requested service is not 
covered under your insurance policy. For contract coverage cases, the AZ DIFI is the independent 
reviewer. Contract coverage appeals are subject to the following time frames: 
 
• Within five business days of receiving your request, we must: 
1. Send a written acknowledgement of your request to the AZ DIFI, you, and your treating 
provider. 
 2. Send the AZ DIFI all of the following: 
a. 
The request for review. 
b. Your policy, evidence of coverage or similar document. 
c. All medical records and supporting documentation used to render our determination(s). 
d. A summary of the applicable issues including a statement of our determination. 
e. The criteria used and clinical reasons for our determination. 
f. The relevant portions of our utilization review guidelines. 
g. The name and credentials of the health care provider who reviewed and upheld the 
determination(s) at the initial appeal and, if applicable, the voluntary internal appeal 
level.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 90 =====

11
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Within 15 business days of receiving this information the AZ DIFI must determine whether the 
service or claim is covered and send a written notice of their determination to you, your treating 
provider, and us. 
 
Referral to an IRO for Contract Coverage Appeals: The AZ DIFI may be unable to determine issues 
of coverage. If this occurs, the AZ DIFI will forward the case to an IRO. The IRO will have 21 days to 
make a determination and send it to the AZ DIFI. The AZ DIFI will have five business days after 
receiving the IRO’s determination to send the notice of determination to you, your treating provider, 
and us. 
 
The determination: If the AZ DIFI decides that we should provide the service or pay the claim, we 
must do so. If either you or we disagree with the AZ DIFI’s determination on a coverage issue, you or 
we may request a hearing with the AZ OAH by sending a request to the AZ DIFI within 30 days after 
receiving the AZ DIFI’s determination. 
 
 
NOTES ON INDEPENDENT REVIEW ORGANIZATIONS (IROs) 
 
• The AZ DIFI contracts directly with multiple IROs. They each maintain large rosters of many types 
of specialties of physicians and other licensed health care professionals. 
 
• There is no cost to a member or provider for any part of the appeal process. If the services of an IRO 
are used, the AZ DIFI selects and pays the IRO, then bills the insurer for reimbursement after the 
appeal is completed. 
 
• The IRO will check that their reviewer does not have a conflict of interest with the insurer, member, 
or treating provider, and was not involved in the original denial determination or any previous appeal 
for the same member. 
 
• There will be no communication with the IRO by you or us. The IRO will complete their review 
using the documentation in your appeal. 
 
• The IRO reviewer will be a provider who typically manages the condition under review. 
 
• The IRO’s determination is binding on all parties. Any further challenges must proceed through 
Superior Court. 
 
• Even if determined to be medically necessary, neither the IRO, the AZ DIFI, or the AZ OAH can 
order an insurer to provide or pay for a treatment or service that is excluded in a policy.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 91 =====

12
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OBTAINING MEDICAL RECORDS 
 
Arizona law (A.R.S. §12-2293) permits you to ask for a copy of your medical records. Your request 
must be in writing and must specify who you want to receive the records. The health care provider 
who has your records will provide you or the person you specified with a copy of your records. 
 
Designated Decision-Maker: If you have a designated health care decision-maker, that person must 
send a written request for access to or copies of your medical records. The medical records must be 
provided to your health care decision-maker, or a person designated in writing by your health care 
decision-maker unless you limit access to your medical records only to yourself or your health care 
decision-maker. 
 
Confidentiality: Medical records disclosed under A.R.S. §12-2293 remain confidential. If you 
participate in the appeal process, the relevant portions of your medical records may be disclosed only 
to people authorized to participate in the review process for the medical condition under review. 
These people may not disclose your medical information to any other people. 
 
 
DOCUMENTATION FOR AN APPEAL 
 
If you file an appeal, you must include any material justification or documentation. If you gather new 
information during the course of your appeal, you should give it to us as soon as you get it. You must 
also give us the address and phone number or email where you can be contacted. 
 
If your appeal goes to external review, the AZ DIFI may contact you by email from a generic email 
address (hca@difi.az.gov). If the appeal is already at the External Independent Review level, you will 
be notified in writing that you have five business days to send any additional information to the AZ 
DIFI. If you submit anything after the five business days, it does not have to be considered in your 
appeal. 
 
 
THE ROLE OF THE ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS (AZ DIFI) 
 
Arizona law requires “any member who files a complaint with the AZ DIFI relating to an Adverse 
Determination to pursue the review process prescribed” by law (A.R.S. § 20-2533(F)). This means, 
that you must pursue the health care appeals process for all applicable adverse 
determinations before the AZ DIFI can investigate a complaint you may have against our 
company based on the determination at issue in the appeal. 
 
The appeal process requires the AZ DIFI to: 
 
1. Oversee the appeals process. 
2. Maintain copies of each utilization review plan submitted by insurers. 
3. Receive, process, and act on requests from an insurer for External Independent Review. 
4. Enforce the determinations of insurers.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 92 =====

13
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Review determinations of insurers. 
6. Send, when necessary, a record of the proceedings of an appeal to Superior 
Court or to the AZ Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH). 
7. Issue a final administrative determination on coverage issues, including the notice of the 
right to request a hearing at AZ OAH. 
 
 
RECEIPT OF DOCUMENTS 
 
Any written document that is sent by mail is deemed received by the person to whom the document 
is properly addressed on the fifth business day after mailing. "Properly addressed" means your last 
known mailing address. Any document may alternatively be sent electronically where a member has 
elected electronic delivery.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 93 =====

14
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT US 
 
UNITEDHEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMPANY 
 
INSURER NAME: UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company 
 
INSURER PHONE NUMBER 1-888-799-7716 
 
WEBSITE ADDRESS www.uhcsr.com 
 
SEND YOUR STANDARD, EXPEDITED, or EXTERNAL HEALTH CARE APPEAL TO: 
 
 Claims Appeals 
 UnitedHealthcare Student Resources 
 PO Box 809025 
Dallas, TX 75380-9025 
1-888-315-0447

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 94 =====

1
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 95 =====

2
 
 
COL-17-AZ (PY25) APPEALS PACKET

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_certificate.pdf | PAGE 96 =====

Notice of Non-Discrimination 
We
1 comply with the applicable civil rights laws and do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, age, disability, or sex (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, and gender identity). We do 
not exclude people or treat them less favorably because of race, color, national origin, age, disability, or 
sex. 
We provide free aids and services to help you communicate with us. You can ask for interpreters and/or for 
communications in other languages or formats such as large print. We also provide reasonable 
modifications for persons with disabilities. 
If you need these services, call 1-866-260-2723 for Medical Plans, 1-800-638-3120 for Vision Plans, 1-
877-816-3596 for Dental Plans (TTY 711). 
 
Civil Right Coordinator 
UnitedHealthcare Civil Rights Grievance 
P.O. Box 30608 
Salt Lake City, UTAH 84130 
UHC_Civil_Rights@uhc.com 
If you need help with your complaint, please call 1-866-260-2723 for Medical Plans, 1-800-638-3120 for 
Vision Plans, 1-877-816-3596 for Dental Plans. (TTY 711). 
You can also file a complaint with the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights: 
 
Online: https://ocrportal.hhs.gov/ocr/portal/lobby.jsf 
Phone: Toll-free 1-800-368-1019, 1-800-537-7697 (TDD) 
Mail: 
U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services 
 
200 Independence Avenue, SW 
 
Room 509F, HHH Building 
 
Washington, D.C. 20201 
 
Complaint forms are available at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/complaints/index.html. 
 
This notice is available at: https://www.uhc.com/content/dam/uhcdotcom/en/npp/NDN-LA-UHC-
StudentResources-EN.pdf 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1For purposes of the Language Assistance Services and this Non-Discrimination Notice (“Notice”), “We” refers to the 
following entities: Dental Benefit Providers, Inc.; Health Allies, Inc.; Spectera, Inc.; UMR, Inc.; United Behavioral Health,; 
United Behavioral Health of New York, I.P.A.; UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company; and UnitedHealthcare Insurance 
Company of New York. Please note that not all entities listed are covered by this Notice. 
 
NDN SR 4/2025