DOC_TYPE: SUMMARY
SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_short_plan.pdf
SOURCE_LINK: https://eoss.asu.edu/health/billing-insurance/coverage-options

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_short_plan.pdf | PAGE 1 =====

2025-2026
Student Health Insurance
Arizona State University

Who can enroll?

All Undergraduate students if they are enrolled in a program of study
taking six or more units or have a consortium agreement to take courses
at a qualified college with an overall credit hour total of at least six units.
Seniors may enroll with less than six units if they are in their last
semester to achieve their final graduation requirements and had the
insurance coverage in the prior semester.

Graduate students if they are enrolled in a graduate degree or certificate
program and taking at least three units or one dissertation/thesis unit.
Graduate non-degree students must have applied to a degree program
and be taking at least six transferable units, be in a certificate program,
or be a full-time student taking at least nine units.
Graduate assistants or associates who are officially hired, with a signed
and filed notice of appointment, and taking at least six units of graduate
credit.

Post-Doctoral Fellows, J-1 Visiting Scholars, or J-1 Student Interns are
eligible to enroll in this Insurance Plan.

International students on non-immigrant visas, regardless of his or her fitting into one of the
above classifications and regardless of the number of
units being taken, are automatically enrolled in the Plan.
The student (Named Insured, as defined in this Certificate) must actively attend classes for at
least the first 31 days after the date for which coverage
is purchased. Home study, correspondence, and online courses do not fulfill the eligibility
requirements that the student actively attend classes. The
Company maintains its right to investigate eligibility or student status and attendance records to
verify that the Policy eligibility requirements have been
met. If and whenever the Company discovers that the Policy eligibility requirements have not
been met, its only obligation is refund of premium.

Medicare Eligibility
Any person who has Medicare at the time of enrollment in this student insurance plan is not
eligible for coverage under the Master Policy.
If an Insured Person obtains Medicare after the Insured Person is covered under the Master
Policy, the Insured Person’s coverage will not end due
to obtaining Medicare.

As used here,
“has Medicare” means that an individual is entitled to benefits under Part A
(receiving free Part A) or enrolled in Part B or Premium Part
A.
Coverage periods, plan cost and deadline dates
Annual (8/16/2025 - 8/15/2026) - $2,765.00
Fall (8/16/2025 - 12/31/2025) - $1,045.00
Spring (1/1/2026 - 8/15/2026) - $1,720.00
Summer (5/16/2026 - 8/15/2026) - $697.00

Rates are subject to regulatory approval and may change.
25COL5051-733-1

Plan Resources at your fingertips
View benefits, submit a claim and download your ID card via My Account at www.uhcsr.com/asu
or uhcsr.com/myaccount.
Find an in-network provider via UHC Choice Plus.
Find a prescription drug provider via Optum Rx.
Value-added benefits and services (Student Assist, Healthiest You, UHC Global) at
www.uhcsr.com/asu or uhcsr.com/myaccount.
If you need language assistance: Language Assistance.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_short_plan.pdf | PAGE 2 =====
Plan highlights

Metallic Level: Platinum with actuarial value of 92.970%

Student Health Center Benefits: 
- The Deductible and Copays will be waived and benefits will be
paid at 100% for Covered Medical Expenses incurred when treatment is rendered at the
Student Health Center for the following services: Travel Immunizations, Well-Woman Care,
Preventive Care, and Initial Counseling Assessment for Psychiatric Services.
- The Deductible will be waived and benefits will be paid at 100% for Covered Medical Expenses
incurred when treatment is rendered at the Student Health Center for the following services:
    - Counseling and Psychiatric Services: Brief Counseling Treatment after $15 Copay per visit and Psychiatric Services after $15 Copay per visit.
    - Lab and X-ray after $10 Copay per visit.
    - General Medicine after $15 Copay per visit.
    - Specialist Care and Chiropractic Care after $25 Copay per day.
    - All other services listed in the Schedule of Benefits.
- The Deductible and Copays will be waived, and benefits will be paid at 100% for Covered
Medical Expenses for Laboratory procedures, including routine Laboratory procedures,
performed at the SHC and labs sent to LabCorp or Sonora Quest Laboratories by the SHC.
SHC referral is not required.

Student Health Center Referral Required
This plan includes a Student Health Center Referral Requirement.
When you need care, make one of the ASU Health Services or Counseling Services locations
your first stop.
If you need care they can't provide, they'll refer you to a Physician or other health care provider
who belongs to United Healthcare's Choice Plus network.

A referral from the ASU Health Services or Counseling Services is not necessary only under any
of the following conditions:
- Medical Emergency.The student must return to SHC for necessary follow-up care.
- When the Student Health Center is closed.
- Medical care received when the student is more than 50 miles from the Tempe campus.
- Maternity, obstetrical and gynecological care.
- Urgent care expenses.
- Adult vision eye exam.
- Preventive Care Services.
- Routine Physicals / Well Visits.
- Prostate Screening.
- Impacted wisdom teeth.
- Accidental Injury to sound, natural teeth.
- Voluntary sterilization for males.

A referral issued by ASU Health Services or Counseling Services must be submitted prior to
treatment. Only one referral is required for each Injury or Sickness per Policy Year.
You are responsible for renewing a referral at the beginning of each Policy Year, if continued
care is needed during that Policy Year.

If a referral is not obtained, benefits will be reduced and paid at the Out-of-Network Provider
benefit level. To learn more about UnitedHealthcare’s Preferred Providers, visit www.uhcsr.com

Overall Plan Maximum: There is no overall maximum dollar limit on the Policy for preferred or out of network providers.

Plan Deductible for Preferred Providers: $250 Per Insured Person, per Policy Year.
Plan Deductible for Out-of-Network Providers: $1,000 Per Insured Person, per Policy Year.

Out-of-Pocket Maximum: After the Out-of-Pocket Maximum has been satisfied, covered medical expenses will be paid at
100% for the remainder of the policy year subject to any applicable benefit maximums. Refer to
the plan certificate for details about how the out-of-pocket maximum applies.
Out-of-Pocket Maximum for Preferred Providers: $1,500 Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year.
Out-of-Pocket Maximum for Out-of-Network Providers: $3,000 Per Insured Person, Per Policy Year.

Coinsurance: All benefits are subject to satisfaction of the deductible, specific benefit limitations,
maximums and copays as described in the plain certificate.
Coinsurance for Preferred Providers: 80% of Allowed Amount for Covered Medical Expenses.
Coinsurance for Out-of-Network Providers: 50% of Allowed Amount for Covered Medical
Expenses.

Prescription Drugs: UHCP Mail order network pharmacy or preferred 90 day retail network pharmacy at 2.5 times
the retail copay up to a 90 day supply. Prescription drugs and contraceptives covered under the
preventive care service benefit will be paid at the benefit shown under preventative care
services.
Prescription Drugs Deductible: $125 Deductible (per Policy Year) does not apply to Policy Deductible.
Prescription Drugs Preferred Providers: $15 Copay for Tier 1; $40 Copay for Tier 2; $80 Copay
for Tier 3; Up to a 31-day supply per prescription filled at a UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy (UHCP)
Retail Network Pharmacy.
Prescription Drugs Out-of-Network Providers: $15 Copay for generic drugs; $40 Copay for
brand name drugs; 100% of billed charge; Up to a 31-day supply per prescription.

==== SOURCE_PDF: asu_ship_short_plan.pdf | PAGE 3 =====

Preventative Care Services including but not limited to: annual physicals, GYN exams, routine
screenings and immunizations. No deductible, copays, or coinsurance will be applied when the
services are received from a preferred provided. Please visit
www.healthcare.gov/preventive-care-benefits/ for a complete list of the services provided for
specific age and risk groups.
Preventive Care Services for Preferred Providers: 100% of Allowed Amount.
Preventive Care Services for Out-of-Network Providers: 50% of Allowed Amount after
Deductible.

The following services have per service copays: this list is not all inclusive. Please read the
plan certificate for complete listing of copays.
Physician's Visits for Preferred Providers: $25 not subject to Deductible.
Urgent Care Center for Preferred Providers: $25 not subject to Deductible.
Physiotherapy for Preferred Providers: $25 not subject to Deductible.
Medical Emergency for Preferred Providers: $200 not subject to Deductible; The Copay will be
waived if admitted to the Hospital.
Medical Emergency for Out-of-Network Providers: $200 not subject to Deductible; The Copay
will be waived if admitted to the Hospital.

Outpatient Mental Illness/substance use disorder treatment, except medical emergency and
prescription drugs
Outpatient Mental Illness/Substance Use Disorder Treatment Office Visits for Preferred
Providers: $25 Copay per visit; 100% of Allowed Amount not subject to Deductible.
Outpatient Mental Illness/Substance Use Disorder Treatment Other Outpatient Services
(including partial hospitalization) for Preferred Providers: 100% of Allowed Amount not subject
to Deductible.
Outpatient Mental Illness/Substance Use Disorder Treatment Office Visits for Out-of-Network
Providers: 50% of Allowed Amount after Deductible.
Outpatient Mental Illness/Substance Use Disorder Treatment Other Outpatient Services
(including partial hospitalization) for Out-of-Network Providers: 50% of Allowed Amount after
Deductible.

Questions about your plan. Contact Customer Service at 1-866-652-9185 or at
customerservice@uhcsr.com

Where can I get more information about the benefits available?
Please read the certificate of coverage to determine whether this plan is right before you 
enroll. The certificate of coverage provides details of the coverage including benefits, 
exclusions, and reductions or limitations and the terms under which the coverage may be 
continued in force. Copies of the certificate of coverage are available from the University 
and may be viewed at www.uhcsr.com/ASU. This plan is underwritten by UnitedHealthcare 
Insurance Company and is based on policy number 2025-733-1. The Policy is a Non-Renewable 
One-Year Term Policy.

'Student Assist services are provided through OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions and OptumHealth 
Care Solutions, UnitedHealth Group companies. The Student Assist is not a substitute for medical 
attention. If you have an emergency medical condition, you should call 911 or your local 
emergency services number. HealthiestYou and the HealthiestYou logo are trademarks of Teladoc 
Health, Inc., and may not be used without written permission. HealthiestYou does not replace 
the primary care physician. HealthiestYou does not guarantee that a prescription will be
written. HealthiestYou operates subject to state regulation and may not be available in certain 
states. HealthiestYou does not prescribe DEA-controlled substances, non-therapeutic drugs and 
certain other drugs that may be harmful because of their potential for abuse. HealthiestYou 
physicians reserve the right to deny care for potential misuse of services. Non-Insurance Travel 
Assistance services are provided by or through United Healthcare Services, Inc., and affiliates 
under the UnitedHealthcare Global brand.
© 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. The written materials contained in 
this document are a confidential property of UnitedHealth Group. Do not distribute or reproduce 
any materials without the express written consent of UnitedHealth Group. This plan is 
underwritten by UnitedHealthcare Insurance Company and is based on policy 2025-733-1. For 
further details of the coverage including costs, benefits, exclusions, any reductions or 
limitations and the terms under which the coverage may be continued in force, please refer to 
uhcsr.com/ASU. NOTE: The information contained herein is a summary of certain benefits which 
are offered under a student health insurance Policy issued by UnitedHealthcare. This document 
is a summary only and does not contain a full or complete recitation of the benefits and 
restrictions/exclusions associated with the relevant Policy of insurance. This document is not 
an insurance Policy document and your receipt of this document does not constitute the issuance 
or delivery of a Policy of insurance. Neither you nor UnitedHealthcare has any rights or 
responsibilities associated with your receipt of this document. Changes in federal, state or 
other applicable legislation or regulation or changes in Plan design required by the applicable 
state regulatory authority may result in differences between this summary and the actual Policy 
of insurance. Benefits and rates described herein are subject to regulatory approval and may 
change.
